The idea was simple.

Beyond the Declaration, which was pretty neat, to be sure, but didn't really
have much in the way of an action plan, outlining only a global vision and
credo, and not the _actual steps_ to get there.

Nevertheless, the idea was simple: do the same kind of things the Rebellion and
Alliance had done, just scaled up to encompass the entire Galaxy (minus the
Republic worlds and the self-determined) and emphasise more the civilian impact
and less the military objectives and strategic targets.

The Alliance had an entire class of ops that were entirely designed to provide
them good PR. Oh sure, they were also the right thing to do, and they saved
lives, but that wasn't a particularly hard thing to do when you were fighting
against a literal evil Empire and the criminal activity developing as a result.

So the Alliance sent pilots, crews, and operatives rescue transports, help in
recovery after accidents, deliver food and supplies, protect settlements,
prepare temporary housing, set up emergency travel stations, assist refugees…
everything they could to save the most people… in the most visible of ways.

It brought beings hope. That is certainly an admirable goal. Hope staves off
nightmares and provides relief even in the most desperate of situations. A
hopeless population will resign themselves to their fate, and give up, and
perhaps even co-operate with the enemy in _hope_ to get something better amidst
the horror and terror. Hopelessness turns us all into opportunists.

Recognising this leads to wanting to optimise hope, even if that then sounds
like a cynical calculus, no better than the propaganda of the Enemy. But the
difference is notable by its very goal: creating and uplifting hope for the
survival and freedom of all is very different from manipulating crowds to turn
against its defenders.

The Rebellion, on the other hand, was built by and from people trying to do the
right thing, a multitude of independent cells rising up on their own and with
very local goals, at least at first. Almost all of them had a hatred of an
abstract Enemy they could but chip at with their actions. Almost all of them
also had a deep love for either themselves, or the people they came from, or the
land they lived on.

(It often was that when second component was missing or worked around or lost
sight of, tragedies arose. The Partisans were a particularly well-known and
controversial example, but there were many others, like the piratical Kuuirumin
Survivors and the Lost Holy Knights, who initially fought for their people but
gradually descended into more and more extreme acts always justified by “doing
what was necessary” and “waking up the implicitely complicit.”)

The Resistance would seek to bring both of these philosophies to bear: an
organisation dedicated to bringing freedom and salvation wherever they could,
however they could, with a constant focus on helping locals help themselves and
with the foremost goal of bringing peace and freedom to the _entire_ Galaxy.

However, most of the Alliance's top brass had now gone to form the New Republic.
Fortunately, that wasn't _all_ of its command structure. The early Resistance
was a largely grassroot, foot soldier kind of thing, with a general idea but not
much in the way of being able to actually make it work. There were Captains and
Lieutenants and even some Commanders, and it was all starting to loosely and
slowly organise itself.

Into this mess came Lando Calrissian.

Lando Calrissian had, by his own reckoning, led a very strange life.

He'd started as a
