Tibar was not yet born when Jabba was slain, and was very young still when the
Kajain'sa'Nikto all but took over Nal Hutta and wrenched control of the Hutt's
empires from the Old Families. Perhaps for that reason, they did not have the
same lingering anger towards the Nikto, the New Republic, the budding
Resistance, and almost everyone else who held a dislike for the Hutt as a
species and refused them business on this principle.

No. Tibar was young, but Tibar had learned, and researched, much more deeply
than other Hutts. It wasn't like they didn't have time: the Hutt may have been
dethroned from their crime empires, but had not been robbed blind, either. All
sources of income had dried up, but Tibar doubted any Hutt would suffer from
that for another century, such was the size of the Hutts' various fortunes.

And without any criminal empire to manage, came the lack of even minor
occupation that would usually have been bestowed upon youth such as Tibar. They
weren't completely free to do as they pleased, as they still received lessons
from various members of their family, but the amount of time to be spent at
their sole discretion took up the vast majority of days and months.

Tibar's slightly-older cousin Epas spent most of her time harranguing the
family's remaining slaves (another thing that had dried up with the end of the
Empire: the Hutts' ability to procure slaves). She was often rebuked by elders
of the family, who actually understood the concept of a finite resource and why
wilfully reducing its life expectancy was a terrible idea. Epas seemed not able
to catch on, though, and always returned to her pastime.

Had Tibar felt like bothering, they'd have put a substantial bet on an Old
Family eventually noticing and punishing the offender. Not with death, as Hutt
life was precious, but with something sufficiently unpleasant as to ensure
she'd get it, this time. Accounting, perhaps. There was nothing quite like
endless hours in humidity-controlled rooms slithering through archive stacks to
recompile an obscure transaction history, all without slaves nor even servants,
as none but the Hutt would ever have access to the Halls of Records.

Tibar actually liked hanging out in the Halls, albeit not near Accounting,
Boonta forbid. The Histories, though, held records of the Hutts' progress,
conquests, business, exploration, politics, regulations, and prominent Galactic
events going back several millennia. The information therein would once have
been dwarfed by the Jedi Archives on Coruscant, and the Learning Palaces on
Alderaan, but those had been lost in the recent wars. Now, only the secretive
Library of Kiffu competed with the Halls, not that a Hutt would ever be welcome
on Kiffu, nevermind their Library.

However, some things, especially relatied to recent events, were not in the
Halls, and Tibar had to rely on the HoloNet, and navigate its many sources and
publishings, examining everything carefully to determine veracity or elements
of fantasy. They were no slicer, but they could get around. Even with the
HoloNet, some facts that should have been a matter of public record were
conspicuously absent (and due to their position and species, Tibar could not
easily obtain more using direct means).

Facts such as the true identity of Leia Organa, General in the military branch
of the Resistance. Or her true parentage, although there were rumours of royal
blood in addition to being an Alderaanian Princess by adoption. Or details
regarding the reconstruction of the Holy City of Jedha; that there was a
reconstruction started at all had been inordinately difficult to confirm,
especially without the possibility to _take a shuttle there_.

While most others grumbled about the Nikto and the end of the Empire and all
that was brought about through that, Tibar had read and made conjectures about
the actual reasons of the Hutts' downfortune. And they'd arrived to some
troubling conclusions.

Firstly, the Old Families had progressively gotten worse and crueler during the
past half millennia. Where slavery and sentient trafficking had been a fringe
activity for most of their history, it had suddenly grown around 490 BBY, until
it dominated all other types of business conducted on Nal Hutta and other
Hutt-controlled worlds, even overtaking good old spice mining in 156 BBY.
Treatment of their properties and partners had taken a turn for the nasty and
regularly irreverrent to downright offensive only relatively recently.

Secondly, the Hutts' empires extended much further than they'd thought or been
taught. General Organa might have known Jabba was over six centuries old when
she strangled him, but did she know she had almost single-handedly caused the
downfall of the oldest-standing government of the Galaxy? The death of Jabba,
subsequent uprising of the Nikto, and annihilation of the Hutt Council in the
resulting war put an end to fifteen millenia of uninterrupted rule by the body.
_Huttslayer_ indeed.

Thirdly, before the Hutt Council was formed, crime was not the norm for their
species. They'd always had a dim view of most other species, as they lived for
ridiculously short amounts of time, but they had deep cultural exchanges with
Anzati and Nei'Ti, who were of similar lifespans. While stories of the Original
Homeworld had passed into legend even within the Halls, some scholarly accounts
remained, describing a society who commanded respect not through fear and
violence, but by being keepers of wisdom. _Wisdom? Hah!_ thought Tibar upon
reading that section. The very idea was outlandish even for them.
