Phasma wasn't really paying attention, it was more of him and Kylo talking
infantry, until she heard what Hux was saying about the conversion of Ilum
into…

"You're building another superweapon?" she interrupted.

Hux blinked, then smiled. "Well, the first one for us, for the First Order. The
Empire was thinking too small, and built things from scratch in the middle of
space, and that's clearly ridiculous, why do that when you can just excavate."

Phasma blanks her mind and braces, and asks: "And what target…?"

"Oh, I was thinking of Hosnian Prime. As a demo."

"Ah." Her bracing almost fails, almost… but she must not, she cannot. "Very
well." and she bows down again over her datapad, affecting an uninterested air,
and carefully modulating her breath while she hears Kylo engaging Hux again in
conversation about the efficiency of the new model of blasters.

The meeting drags on a little more, and then finally breaks up and Kylo leaves
on his shuttle and Phasma walks to her transport and waves at the pilot to take
them away. She is never so grateful at the well-oiled machinery of people she
created and maintains, as she doesn't even have to _say_ or _do_ anything yet
five minutes later they're in hyperspace.

In hyperspace. Safe from Force-sensitives hearing her thoughts. Safe— and
terribly unsafe from her thoughts shouting at top volume.

_He wants to do WHAT?!_

And she cannot help it, she thinks back to DM-3007, crying silently as he
watches the explosions below them, as a village is wiped off the map, the sand
it's built on melting into glass from the heat, as she found out later, much
later, long after DM-3007 accidentally fell on his blaster in the mess hall.

She thinks back to the systematic destruction of escape pods as ordered by her
then commanding officer after disabling a corvette. She remembered the shocked
moment of indecision by the officer's second, who then relayed the order in the
flattest voice Phasma had ever heard. she had forced herself to watch with
growing horror, waiting, hopeful, for the order to stop, for a targetting
instruction, because the officer _must_ have had a reason, perhaps their goal
was within one of the pods, you just _did not shoot down escape pods_.

She thinks back of her father, well, her step-father, one day just a few weeks
after her fifteenth birthday. Her mother wasn't home. Her father was well into
his third bottle of something foul-smelling, she did not remember what alcohol
it was, and he told her stories, stories he'd never told before and would never
tell again. Two stories, one he'd lived, and another he'd just heard from old
colleagues who'd heard it from elsewhere.

"_We'd been sent— by the Emperor, he wanted to know what was beyond the Outer
Rim. We believed we were going— there was **nothing** beyond the Outer Rim, no
one ever came back, only mangled transmissions. Telescopes and sensors saw
stars beyond, but even that we had to guess at, we were looking through plasma
winds. And then we found a system, and ships, and a planet full of life._

"_And our Commander, he…" he had breathed hard, and knocked back a drink, and
continued: "he ordered— to fire on the planet._" She remembers gasping softly,
she remembers asking about warnings. "_No, no warnings, that was, well, he
wanted to announce ourselves, our might. **His** might. We just— watched. And
then the planet-shields came up and absorbed our blasts and our Commander… I
was there. He was surprised. And I saw, on the planet, I saw the lights of the
entire city dim, just for a second, and then— **It was hell.**_

"_We had shields, oh, we had shields, but they started shrieking immediately,
alarms everywhere, not that we really needed them, the entire view was white
and blue and red as turbolaser hits splashed against our shields. I don't
remember how. After the first few waves I got myself, and my unit, we were
together, we weren't on the bridge anymore. We were about to walk into a launch
hangar, when the emergency doors slammed down and then everything shook and
then we came to and **the door was glowing hot**. I could feel it through my
visor and I kept wondering how it wasn't melting yet._

"_We backtracked, and we lost— we lost—_" he'd whispered something she'd not
been able to hear, and he'd looked at the bottle, but shuddered. He started
again, in a rough whisper, barely audible. She'd crept forward slightly,
despite not really wanting to hear about more horrors. "_We fell down to the
surface pretty soon after that. And then there was salvage… I'd never seen so
many corpses from so close. People— people— people I knew._"

And she thought that had been it, and she'd crept back away… only to be yanked
forward by the collar of her dress, and raising her arms and being afraid of—
her father, step-father, had never been— he'd never— but he was drunk and she
heard stories. But he'd only looked at her intently, and she'd gazed back into
haunted eyes, and he'd told her about Alderaan, which was five years prior but
they'd only learned about it now from the recently-arrived _Eclipse_.

And then he'd sobbed, and he'd let her go, and she'd jumped backwards, and he'd
flinched, and she'd fled, and he'd called after her: "Saka! I'm sorry. Saka!
Saka!" but she'd kept running.
