When an expedition (a capital ship, really, carrying tens of thousands, not
just a few troops) of the Empire headed to the Unknown Regions to find new
worlds to colonise, they didn't expect to find a thriving society. But they
were the Empire, and they met society with laser cannon fire. What really
surprised them was when the planet fired back.

They had just found the Burlak system, and attacked its capital world Unteli.

If they had just been discreet, they would have learned many things, but most
importantly they would have learned that the Unknown Regions is a thriving
place. Beyond the fringe of society, yes, and without direct contact to the
rest of the Galaxy, of course, but a thriving arrangement of sectors and
alliances and trade unions and rivalries. They would have learned of the minor
players and the less populated worlds and perhaps tried to establish themselves
there. And they would have learned that nobody, under any circumstances, would
ever be enough out of their kriffing minds to launch an unprovoked full-frontal
attack on Unteli of Burlak.

The capital ship's turbolasers did not even reach the planet's surface,
although from within the world-shields, the sound of the shots being absorbed
was a rolling thunderclap coursing over thousands of klicks. Unteli's citizens
themselves looked up, wondered what poor fuck had decided to commit
suicide-by-planet, and stopped to look at the fireworks. Then the superlaser
ground-to-air batteries outside cities activated, aimed, and fired.

To the credit of the Empire, they had spared no expense when building the
largest vessels of their fleet. Under the sudden and unexpected assault, the
*Imperial*-class *Mandator* only lost half of its superficial shielding, none
over any vital equipment. They were surprised, but not out of commission.

And then Unteli fired again. And again. And again. After the fifteenth volley,
the Unteli satellite sensor array detected a hyperspace deformation indicating
the Star Destroyer was readying their drives, and they switched to kinetic
charges. In a desperate manœuver to take them inside the range (and therefore
safe from) the mass drivers, one of the best Imperial pilots violated almost
all protocols and performed an ultra-short hyperspace jump towards the planet's
surface. They crash-landed at the edge of a forest, five hundred million tonnes
of durasteel and people and already-stressed shielding hitting dirt, and even
with all the braking they could afford they were still falling at just a tad
over two hundred kilometres an hour. The blast from the collision flattened a
section of forest around a dozen kilometres in radius, and destroyed most of
the propulsion systems of the *Mandator*, but did otherwise little damage.

Hundreds of crew and troops were dead, a few thousands injured. Pocket change.
Over ten thousand infantry soldiers poured out of the wreckage, and twenty
thousand crew — still trained but less militarily ready — immediately followed
them and started on ground defenses.

After four months of skirmishes and short battles, the Ruling House of Unteli
gave up trying to use force against the invaders and conceded a 400km² section
of land to the Empire, fenced the border, and installed a manned frontierhouse
to control comings and going. Eight months later, the first civilian trade deal
was made. The opening of immigration was only a matter of time after that. A
mere five years later, the enclave was dismantled with the last of Imperials
moving to a new colony calling themselves the Unknown Empire (to the amusement
of the aristocracy and politicians in surrounding worlds) established on a
previously uninhabited dwarf planet in the nearby Kalip system.
