"That doesn't make sense. _Skywalker_ is a tribe. There's hundreds of them."

"What." she spluttered. "No, you must be—"

"I've met at least a dozen, myself," Saka mused. "I don't remember hearing of a
Luke, though. Uncommon name for them, that. Are you sure it's not more like
Lokeni or Lunakin? That would sound more like it…"

"No! He's my brother."

Saka stopped, then looked at Leia, before frowning.

"Aren't you named Organa, though? I'm sure that's what my contact said."

"I— Yes. I was adopted by the House of Organa." Leia knew the Empire's
propaganda and disinformation machine had been strong, but it had been over for
a while now, and anyway this was ridiculous, her real history (except on
matters of her true parentage) had been public for _decades_. _How do you not
know that?_ Then she remembered the woman was probably from beyond the Rim.

Saka had continued: "And not your brother? Well, okay. But still, if you want
to find a Skywalker, you're going to need their Made Name."

"Maiden name? But" Leia was getting really confused now.

"No, no, Made Name. The name that comes from his mother. What was her name?"

"I really don't think- well, Luke was also adopted." But then she thought of
what Marli had said about Luke and Tatooine. He'd gone back for his friends,
and perhaps he'd looked for his history, too, beyond their father. "Amidala.
Wait, no. Naberrie. Padmé Naberrie."

"Well, there you go. You're looking for Luke (if that's really his name)
Padmé'ilde of the Skywalker tribe. Hmm. I haven't heard, myself, but I'll reach
out. I remember Rimike Anele'ilde was doing trade runs within the Rim, if I
find _him_… Yes. I'll reach out. Maybe I'll find some information I can pass
back to your pilot."

Leia was feeling light-headed. _Family! Luke may have family out there._ A
small part of her also longed for some family to call hers, but she had her own
quest to find Alderanni survivors. Yet the hour's business was not done, so she
went back to the problem at hand.

"Yes. That would be helpful. First, though, before we trust you with more…
critical information, we wish to have you trust us with your identity and
_real_ position."

Saka gave a half smile. "Ah."

"Not that we do not appreciate all you've done for us! But." she gestured
vaguely with a hand.

"I understand," Saka looked up, and watched Leia as she spoke. "And I do
appreciate the Resistance sending one of their highest members for this. To be
honest, I'd expected this much earlier."

Leia smiled a bit more frankly. "If it were up to me, we would have. But other
parties suggested otherwise, so here we are."

"Ah well. I'll have documents proving my claims to you later, but for now: my
name truly is Saka. I will not give you a last name, as I wish to protect my
family at all costs." She bent her head, and murmured: "You understand,
surely." Then: "The name I am known by in the First Order is Captain Phasma,
although my true title is Admiral."

She did a small bow. "At your service, General Organa."
