"Master Kylo, the representative from workgroup PK-8491 is here."

Kylo Ren, Master of the Knights of Ren, sighed almost imperceptibly but did not
turn around from the window. The room he held council in overlooked the
starboard wing of his command shuttle. He never tired of tracing out the plates
of durasteel and interconnected durites and powerlines shaping the structure.

He nodded once, and just before his assistant could turn to bring the
representative in, indicated with a hand-sign he wished to be left alone with
the new arrival. He watched in the reflection of the room on the window glass
as each member of the room ackowledged, also silently, but noted that the new
Knights of Ren recruit had hesitated briefly before selecting the correct
hand-sign in response. He resolved to have them practice communication
protocols during the next hyperspace trip, before they needed them.

The door closed behind his staff, leaving the representative alone with Kylo,
who turned around to face them. He immediately noted the nametag and greeted
his guest:

"Brian."

"Master Kylo."

The nametags, and the names, were part of a slew of departures from First Order
culture those who served under Kylo Ren observed.

Once upon a time, Kylo had been impulsive and angry, then later had tried to
rule with fear and intimidation. However, he had eventually realised this was
an error; Admiral Phasma had perhaps influenced him in this direction, if he
was being honest. It is better to command respect and admiration: this also
fosters a lot less rebellion and a lot more genuine loyalty than his previous
(and General Hux's current) practices.

Thus, instead of having every stormtrooper, staff, crew, and associated
personnel have a bland and sterile identification number such as FN-2187, each
had a single-word name. If they had enough personality, they could choose
theirs, or they would simply be assigned one. This also improved operational
security, as names were not guaranteed to be unique, so an enemy looking for a
"John" would find that there were 162 Johns and they would have little luck in
identifying which one they were looking for. The names were also memorable and
quick to pronounce, so ordering around stormtroopers was faster and more
precise; before, it was frequent for commanding officers to indicate troopers
with a "you" and a finger point, occasionally causing confusion.

More embarassingly, many stormtroopers had been lost because yelling "DQ-8691
duck!" took one-and-a-half seconds, while "Dave duck!" took a quarter-second,
and would be effective _before_ a stray blaster volley cut down the recipient
of the order. Introducing names had directly resulted in 0.5% less friendly
casualties on the battlefield, and 2.4% less injuries in training sessions.

Besides, nicknames were already in informal usage within many squads; the
change merely made it official, removed some stigma from disapproving officers,
made it systematic across the entire personel, and introduced the nametags.

Brian looked relaxed, if slightly tired. Kylo guessed this was because they had
worked late for the report he had asked for. He dismissed it as
inconsequential: the tiredness was not severe enough to impair their
capabilities, and they would be able to get some rest after this meeting.

"What were the conclusions of your workgroup, Brian?"

"Aggregate statistics over all simulations we ran give the chance of
Skywalker's Key being in the Capital Worlds at slightly over twenty percent."

"Only twenty percent?" Kylo asked quietly.

Brian almost raised an eyebrow, but reminded themself just in time that they
did not have the big picture on the situation and really shouldn't question
Master Kylo's reasons for sounding disappointed at the result. That, and their
report wasn't complete:

"We ran additional simulations, although only superficial ones, and determined
that it is much more likely that the key is on a Resistance ship or base.
Aggregates put that possibility at 75 percent, and sub-components of the result
estimate a 65 percent chance that the key is within the Hosnian System."

Kylo looked pensieve for a moment, before frowning slightly and seeking
confirmation:

"65 percent of the total, or 65 percent of the previous result?"

Brian took out a flimsipad and consulted the details, before confirming the
former. They took that opportunity to check on another figure.

"Those figures are accurate only to the nearest 5 percent. We ran simulations
to the best we could while still having enough runs to be statistically useful
with the leftover computing time, but the main blocker is that the model of
Resistance behaviour in the databanks is not sufficiently detailed."

Kylo nodded, and Brian took a breath before continuing.

"We would like to request another half-percent of computing time over six hours
to both create a better model from the corpus and run detailed simulations
based on this. If we could also get access to the Imperial Archive—"

"No." Kylo interrupted, but did not say more.

After a moment, the representative asked hesitantly:

"Master Kylo?"

[TK include description/exposition of why computing time requests are needed]

Kylo walked to his desk, picked up a flimsi and scoured its contents
absent-mindedly. He already knew what said, and remembered more than read. It
did not change his decisions.

"Brian, thank you for the report. Further computation will probably not be
required; you have already performed higher than expected. Keep the state for
24 hours and then wipe it if you haven't received orders. You and your
workgroup should rest during that time."

He turned away in dismissal, and looked towards the large windows. Beyond the
wing of his shuttle, the planet's horizon was starting to glow blue and red, as
the sunrise filtered through ice and reflected on clouds.

[TK advisors and assistants and KoR come back in, some banter is exchanged,
representative from workgroup PK-9135 is announced, Kylo doesn't clear the room
this time]

"Azha. Thank you for coming."

The greeting was unnecessary, as Azha had been summoned, and didn't really have
a choice whether to come or not. Still, appearances mattered, now that an
audience was there, and niceties were always appreciated.

"Master Kylo."

"Your report? And please do include a little context for those present here."

This was no snub. While both Hux and Kylo were adept [←TK:syn] and
knowledgeable about simulations, computation, and communication, most of their
entourage wasn't. Hux would sneer and _encourage_ his advisors to learn a bit
about the subject "and stop wasting time with stupid questions." Kylo would
instead ask technicians to keep the jargon to a minimum, and let his companions
try to keep up if they wished. He needed their expertise in other domains.

Whether one approach was superior to the other was difficult to quantify. Hux
was in charge of Starkiller Base, one of the most ambitious projects of the
First Order. Kylo was a Master of the Knights of Ren, an elite group of
operatives dealing in special ops and assassination. Both had a few thousands
staff and several units of Stormtroopers. Starkiller Base, of course, also had
its own population ranging in the hundreds of thousands, but that hardly
counted.

There was a light rivalry between staff and Stormtrooper units serving under
Hux or Kylo, based on the different culture and different style of command that
their leaders embraced. Several groups had switched across as opportunities
arose on either side, often finding far-fetched reasons to cover their real
reason of wanting to align with the side they found best.

Both leaders knew, of course, and were privately amused by their staff's
antics. Phasma didn't care: she was the Admiral, in charge of all ships and
logistics. In a way, any movement of staff and troopers between the other two
was a win for her. It mattered little: they all served the First Order, in the
end. This standard month, Hux was 27 staff ahead, but Kylo lead on the
Stormtrooper front by an entire unit. That it was considered 'up there' in the
informal ranking was but a pleasant bonus.

In this particular case, Kylo also wanted to have this serve as a lesson and
primer on cartographic systems for his new Knight, as well as a small test on
paying attention: he'd question the young recruit during training on details
talked about here.

"Certainly, Master Kylo. Due to the way our cartographic system works, there
are multiple ways to attack the problem," here, Azha paused briefly as Kylo
looked slightly questioning, "ah, the problem being that we know Skywalker is
hidden somewhere but we don't have his path or location… and we'd like to.

"Now, the system we colloquially call the 'Galaxy Map' or simply 'the map' is
actually a large-scale — Galaxy-scale, really — distributed system that every
single entity, ship, planet, station, you name it, uses and contributes to.
It's also very old, having been first established, as far as we can tell, soon
after the first forays into inter-star-system travel. Its exact origin,
including which species was responsible, is unknown… and irrelevant.

"Having a single galaxy-spanning system means that every ship, every navicomp,
every AI, every droid, everything and everyone can use it and plug into it and
add to it. That's the reason why we can appropriate ships and not have to
completely replace their navigation systems to be able to fly anywhere. Sure,
our enemies also get that advantage, but nobody actually thinks about it, and
very few people know about it, so it's not that big an inconvenience,
especially given the considerable benefits.

"The way information is specialised and hidden from the general public is
through crypted Overlays. Overlays can contain various metadata… shipping
routes, names of planets in languages other than Basic, demographics, political
affiliations, or the residence of certain people. Overlays are actually also
available globally through the map system… but they're all crypted using Keys.
Without the right Key, you can't even know which sectors are covered by an
Overlay, much less who maintains it.

"So, we're not looking for a 'fragment of a map', as I've heard it put," there
was a hint of disgust in Azha's voice. "We're looking for two things: the right
Overlay, and the Key to unlock it. And from there our angles of attack:

"First, we can avoid doing any kind of cryptography work at all, and simply visit every planet we don't already know about."

In the back, Nueb snorted. A Sullustan, Tanel Nueb was one of the rare
non-humans serving as an officer of the First Order. The specieism inherited
from the Empire had faded somewhat, but still remained as something more than
just unconscious bias. Nueb had very high skill not only in economics and
strategy as his people were known to, but also had a keen understanding of such
a wide variety of topics that Kylo wasted no time in asking him as an advisor.
That Sullustans in general had a historical habit of working for or with the
Alliance and its offshoots was but a happy bonus.

"That is a foolish endeavour if I ever heard one," he interrupted.

"Quite." Azha acquiesced. "Besides, we're already doing that, or rather,
Admiral Phasma has a taskforce or two dedicated to visiting worlds."

Nueb looked surprised at this, then interested, then returned to an impassive
mask. Kylo knew he would immediately start looking into this, as soon as
possible after the meeting ended.

"The second possibility is to attack the Overlay instead of attempting to find
the Key through one mean or another. I said the Map is old in its origins. Due
to compatibility concerns, the security measures surrounding Overlays are also
fairly old. The last update to their cryptography dates back two hundred years.
So, in theory, it's much weaker than the Key, and should be easier to break.

"In practice, though, we have no idea which Overlay is the right one. We would need to attack all Overlays we can't read, going through them all sequentially until we find something. We have one of the largest collections of Keys at our disposition… perhaps _the_ largest but we don't really know the extent of the Republic's own vaults. And yet, there are still thousands of Overlays we cannot read. Most are probably only proprietary trade routes. So that's also unfeasible.

"The last possibility, short of physically finding the Key, is to
