# In the Pale Darkness of Dawn

A multiverse of Star Wars fanfic.

## Thabeska cycle

### Jeira

Jeira is a storyteller. But more than that, she is the last Keeper of the
Stories for her family line. She has a key to the Archives, and a duty to
listen, share, translate, pass on, and maintain the oral and written stories of
Thabeska. Her grandmother, who raised her, was the Keeper before her. She falls
for Beca, a non-binary history student on visit to Thabeska from another small
Outer Rim world. They have a daughter, Naema. Upons this comes the Empire, who
is much less tolerant of what it sees as deviations from its ideal. They marry
in a hurry, to make it harder for the bureaucracy to keep them from each other.
As life becomes progressively harder under Imperial oppression, Jeira cannot
stay idle and finds a cell of resisters.

### Patra

Patra is the current Head of the Fardi, outwardly a smuggling clan, but really
an integral part of Thabeska, historically its Ruling Family. Fardi have a long
tradition and an ancient contract with the people of Thabeska to support,
protect, and help them. When the Empire takes over, Patra has to choose between
the Family surviving and helping the Thabeskan√¨ people, so he does the only
reasonable thing and chooses _both_. He takes on too much, and he burns out in
three months. The Family ralies together and fundamentally transforms itself to
support his choice and fight for the future of Thabeska.

### Naema & Hedala

Naema is twelve when her parents disappear one day without trace. She survives
by herself and dreams of escape, just like everyone else. She talks herself
into _interesting_ places despite her age, hangs out with smugglers and bounty
hunters and assassins who find "the kid" cute and humour her questions, and
learns all she can in hopes of fulfilling her dream.

Hedala is the youngest niece of the Fardi Head. She has uncanny instincts that
she trusts even if sometimes she cannot explain to herself what they push her
to do. When the Family reconverts itself to better survive the Imperial rule,
she gets the opportunity to do something else than training to be a pilot like
most of her sisters and cousins, and finds a passion in the complex equations
of hyperspace travel.

One day her instincts push her to do the most foolish thing to date: leave
behind all she knows and thrust herself into a life of adventure by coercing a
young woman to take her with her as she escapes Thabeska by hijacking a Fardi
transport Hedala happens to be in.


## Side stories

- [Empire Day on Thabeska](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11542755).
  A child of Thabeska attends Empire Day. The scene that started it all.
  Not canon with the main fics now because the timelines and ideas changed.

- [In that bright land from which I come](https://archiveofourown.org/works/11809908).
  A scene written as world-building for an undeveloped idea. Happens between
  Episodes VI and VII.

- [Chosen Names](https://archiveofourown.org/works/12722796).
  Crack, written from a prompt during NaNoWriMo 2017.
