"I've been meaning to ask," started [TK1]. [TK2] half-turned towards them,
clearly interested, and Luke's eyes opened fractionally. "The Empire, or what
remained of it, found the Union, right? When they fled to regroup. That's how
you're here. But they didn't invade your worlds."

"That's not a question." Saka smiled.

[TK1] huffed. "You know what I mean. What happened? Why didn't they invade?
I've always thought they were more the 'shoot first ask questions to the
survivors later' type. They've certainly done this enough."

"You remember what I told about how we experienced the Hush?" she didn't wait
for confirmation before continuing, everyone here had been present. "The
visions were very vague. At least, that I know of, it's possible that someone
had a clearer vision and it was kept under wraps. But with enough of them,
people quickly pieced together it had to do with a planetary attack. So the
government took precautions."

Luke raised his head. "You said that before, but I thought it was about making
sure society could function without J- sensitives." 

"That was one part of it. But they also researched, developed, and deployed
more... direct protections. It created a lot of jobs, building the
infrastructure and then maintaining it."

"Direct protections. You mean planetary shields."

Saka looked up sharply, but saw awe rather than incredulity.

[TK1] raised zir hands slightly. "I read the archives. Most planets had them
before the Treaty. Those that didn't tended not to be heard from again, at
least from what I can infer from what few trading logs are preserved.
Although..." zie frowned in confusion. "The maps are too similar, especially
with _normal_ astrographical drift factored in. If there were routinely
exploding planets I'd expect the gravitational shifts to have changed the shape
of the galaxy compared to what was calculated, even comparatively low-powered
hits have shifted planets and moons into different orbits, we measured that,
yet..."

Zie trailed off as Luke was shaking his head, but it was [TK2] who spoke first.

"You're assuming a similar weapon."

"There are suggestions that Sith Star Destroyers were named appropriately,
originally." zie countered, then dipped zir head. "But too old, yes. Pre-Second
Republic as far as the furtherest conjectures go."

Saka spoke softly: "Jakku is one of the closest Rim planets to the innermost
Union star system. It is noted in our records as being one of the last our
ancestors saw before departing from the Rim permanently. In my history book, it
was depicted green and lush."

They all fell silent for a minute, contemplating.

Saka breathed out, then continued where she left off. "Planetary shields were
the first layer of defense. We also had planet-to-space offensive weaponry.
When the Empire first came, I was six. I don't remember much myself, because it
was so soon after the Hush, and I was still recovering. The shields were so
good the Force did not even cry out in warning."

Luke was looking very surprised at this.

"What I know is mostly from reading and hearing about it afterwards. Their
capital ship just dropped out of hyperspace, waited less than ten minutes
before opening fire. Very bad manners," she ironised. "They were extremely
surprised it didn't work, and then the plans had been put into motion. I do
remember the sky turning green and the air becoming charged in electricity even
inside the room I was in. The noise was huge, too."

"You blasted them out of the sky." breathed [TK2]. "Well, they weren't in atmo,
I suppose."

Luke was looking faintly ill, drawing parallels with the Death Star's
destructive strength, and even though he knew it was in blatant self-defense he
felt uneasy. [TK1] was silent, but zir eyes were wide. [TK2] blurted:

"How did any of them survive?" Then she blushed. "I mean." She stopped, unsure.

Saka was still torn in her feelings about this, and she made a face. "Two
things. Firstly, the Force may have been silent until then, confident we would
not be harmed, but as soon as _they_ started dying we felt it. There were
enough sensitives still functional in enough critical places that there was
never a second wave. Secondly, we did blast them away, but they had appeared in
between us and a moon, and they crashed on there instead of careening out into
open space. I'm... not sure which I would have prefered. They'd have all died."

She thought about it, then got a hard look in her eyes, and finished shortly.
"So. They tried to invade. Didn't quite work."

She dug into her breakfast and didn't speak further.
