Iaqa had led her through a mess of stairs and passageways she wasn't sure she
could follow back on her own, up to a wide and flat balcony, or roof maybe,
that had cushions and mats arrayed out at random, overlooking a lush green
landscape, hills, and a distant forest. They must be at the very edge of the
city, something she hadn't realised when she'd been invited inside the
building: the doorway was in a busy plaza, surrounded by other buildings tall
enough that all else she had seen had been sky, air taxis, and taller
buildings.

They both sat down, and Saka drank in the view and breathed in the calm air.
After a little while, she asked:

“Where were you during the Hush?”

“The Hush?”

“Ah. I forgot you're from the Rim.”

“I'm not! I was born on Corellia.”

“That's a Core world, right? Anyway, you're all within the Rim to us.”

“What else is there? I mean, the Unknown regions, but—”

“Just because some people don't know doesn't mean it's Unknown to all!” Saka
interrupted. “Sorry. I just don't like that name.”

“No, I'm sorry. I forget, and I shouldn't; I know better, I've met enough
immigrants from… what do you call it? Beyond?”

“Generally, we're On The Outside, or just Outside for short. Beyond is what you
call Wild Space, I think. I mean, parts of what is marked Wild Space on your
map packs is Outside to ours, but it's mostly right.”

“Right. So, you were asking about a Hush?”

“The Hush. Um. Jedha and Alderaan.”

“Oh.” he paused for a long moment.

“Oh no! Are you alright? We can not talk about it if you're affected. I'm
really sorry, I should have—”

“Whoa, um.” He smiled, and Saka was confused. “I'm okay. I was just
remembering. I was… in landing orbit somewhere, I don't even recall the planet.
It's lucky I hadn't taken the vector down yet, there's many pilots who fell out
of the skies when the news came. That was for Jedha. Alderaan, we didn't even
know until later. I was grounded then, at least, not that it helped much. We
just… stood still. For what seemed ever. And then we scrambled and there was so
much to do! I lost myself in work and business. Yeah.”

Saka nodded. They sat in companionable silence. Then Iaqa turned towards her
and asked:

“What about you? Where were you when— wait. If you didn't know it was Alderaan
until years later, how did you know something had happened? How can it be
called the Hush if you didn't get the news?”

Saka stared. _Everyone_ knew about the Hush, because everyone hushed at once.
And did so twice over. What did he mean about news? She could understand the
first time, as a non-sensitive pilot he'd been alone and wouldn't have
witnessed others, but the second time, grounded on a base with many people
around… her eyes grew with the implications. And then she felt someone tugging
at her.

“Saka! Saka. You're alright? I'm sorry, what did I say? You spaced out and
started trembling.”

She stared some more, but briefly, as she forced herself to nod and took a deep
breath, then released it slowly, and went through a short breathing exercise
while she hummed to herself something her mother used to hum to her.

_at the highest peak, on the tallest ship_

“The first time, Jedha, I was at home. Playing. I was five and a half. My
mother was in the other room. And then I was at the Healers’ and everyone was
talking, softly but I could still hear. It was night out. I’d cried out and
collapsed and during the entire speeder drive I was murmuring names I’d never
heard. They had to knock me out, but they could only use a small dose, so when
I woke up they were very worried. But it was over. Then there was Alderaan, but
the government had had time to prepare, just in case, and mum stuck me with a
hypospray pretty much immediately, so it wasn’t so bad. The aftermath was
rough. It’s still hard. But I’ve had years of therapy in the meantime, so that
helped.”

Saka finished speaking, then noticed that Iaqa was looking at her _very
strangely_.

“What?”

“You’re a Jedi?!”

“What?! No—” but Iaqa was still speaking.

“Wait, before that, the _government_ helped _you_? Are you royalty? Are Jedi
royalty where you come from? And therapy? Years of it?”

“Iaqa, stop, stop! I’m not a Jedi. What are you talking about?”

“You said you _felt_ it.”

“Well, yeah, me and thousands of other beings.”

“There’s _thousands of Jedi_?!”

“_I just told you I’m not a Jedi!_ Iaqa. Okay. Can we just, calm down and try
to figure this out? I think that answers a few of my questions, too.”

Iaqa continued to stare at her, but relented, and nodded.

“Are you royalty, though? I mean, for the government to—”

Saka held a hand up.

“Let’s just stop, _both of us_, with the assumptions."

She waited until Iaqa visibly settled, and he nodded with a sheepish smile.

"Okay. And um, no. I’m not royalty. There hasn’t even _been_ royalty in the
Union since before it was a Union.”

“Union? Wait, nevermind that, you’ll explain about the astropolitics of your
part of the Galaxy later. Let’s start by figuring out this, first. So. Only
Jedi felt Alderaan. And Jedha, I suppose, but I wasn’t around others at the
time to notice. So, how can you not be a Jedi?”

“Force-sensitive. Not Jedi.”

“Isn’t that the same thing?”

“No. The Jedi is… or was… a _group_ and philosophy and organisation _of_
Force-sensitives. But there’s many others, although I don’t know if the names
or groups who I was told lived in Rim are still the same now. The Witches of
Dathomir. The Jedaa’i of Idar. The Baran Do sages. The paladins. The various
Walker families. The Tailortails. I think. Naha, er... something. The Beatific
Siblings. The Guardians of the Whills. The Sith, of course. And the Jedi of
Ossus. That’s only the few I remember from lessons, though. That’s only
organised groups, though. Most of us are unaffiliated, with only basic training
to not be overwhelmed and respect privacy, and that’s what I find disturbing
about your story.”

“Because we don’t have any Force-sensitives.” He was looking troubled now. “You
didn’t _get the news_ like we did, your… entire population of Force-sensitives
_felt_ the… the Hush. And to have a government response, and a plan in place
for the next time… which you wouldn’t know would happen, right?”

“The more sensitive ones were getting visions, but we didn’t know whether it
was, um. Replays. Or if it was a warning, or the future, or what. So they
assumed there would be a possible repeat and planned for that.”

Iaqa muttered something that sounded like _your government sounds much nicer
than ours_, but Saka wasn’t sure, nor sure about what to say to that, and
anyway he was already continuing.

“How many, well, you might not know, but it would be a lot, for the government
to prepare like that. Unless you have a _very_ small world.”

“On my planet, the population, total, is just over one billion. The
Force-sensitives are a bit less than a tenth of a percent of the population. We
learn that in school.”

Iaqa was floored. If he wasn’t already sitting on it, he’d have fallen down. _A
million Force-sensitives._ “Stars” he breathed. Then something occurred to him.

“_Your_ planet? How many are there on _other_ planets?”

“Well, the total population of the Union is 217 billion 300 million… something.
It’s been a long time since I was at school. It's probably increased since
then, too. And the percentage of Force-sensitives is roughly the same. Which
brings me to my next concern.”

The numbers had ceased to make sense to Iaqa, out of shock or due to their
size, but he forced himself to make the calculation anyway. Over 210 million
Force-sensitives. But more shocking, that the percentage remained the same.

“There should be hundreds of billions of Force-sensitives in the Known… within
the Rim. The Core alone should have at least a billion. The Empire was bad, and
they hunted Jedi, and they lasered cities, but they didn’t kill hundreds of
billions. Besides, the Jedi Order was only, what, a few tens of thousand
strong? This is.”

“Impossible?” she asked wryly.

“Yeah! No. No, it’s clearly possible. I trust you. But I can’t find an
explanation for it. I wonder how far back it goes. Must have been gradual,
because it would have made it into the historical consciousness if hundreds of
billions had been killed off suddenly, no matter how far back that was and what
regime there had been.”

“It can’t be further back than Year Zero, sorry, 3653 BBY.”

“The Treaty of Coruscant.”

“That’s when we separated from the… well, the Second Republic.”

“Second?”

“The Old Republic before the New Republic became the Old Republic?”

Iaqa laughed. “You have a point. But why Second? I thought that would be the
First.”

“Look, it’s been twenty-five years since I was at school. First Republic, then
Sith War, then Treaty of Coruscant, then Second Republic, then Sith War, then
Third Republic, then the Empire — also a Sith thing, and now the Fourth
Republic. We rejected the Treaty and kriffed off to our worlds beyond the
plasma winds where the Sith couldn’t reach. Which might be the answer,
actually.”

“You mean, after the Treaty, the Sith somehow found a way to reduce the rate
Force-sensitives are born, and have been at it for the last three and a half
millennia?” he sounded a bit hysterical.

“I mean, that’s one hypothesis. Could be something else. Whatever the reason,
there should be way more Force-sensitives, and way more Force-_users_, in the
Rim. That there’s not is frankly distressing. How do you tell if something bad
is going to happen? How do you find habitable planets? How do you judge beings
in courts of law? Who do you consult to find out if pregnancies are viable? How
do you find lost friends and family? How do you _live_?”

Okay, she sounded a bit hysterical too.

“Force-sensitives do all those things?”

“_Yes!_ Of course! We have to work, too. Why not use our innate skills?”

Iaqa made a face like it was the first time he’d thought of that. Which,
considering he didn’t know Force-sensitives were a common thing until five
minutes ago, is understandable. It didn’t help Saka’s feelings of despair,
though.

“The Jedi, our Jedi, were just peacekeepers. And not very good ones at that,
there were conflicts all the time. From what I heard.”

He thought for a moment.

“I suppose if they were carrying all these duties and they found their numbers
diminishing, although they couldn’t tell they were because it was so slow, they
would slowly abandon what they saw as the less critical roles and focus on the
most important. And peacekeeping sounds pretty important.”

Saka was having trouble finding words.

“I’m just. I can’t imagine living a life as a non-sensitive without all these
things. And I’m really sad that dozens or maybe hundreds of generations didn’t
get to experience all that. A marriage officiated by a Force-sensitive is
_beautiful_. Not all marriages are, but those that are… they’re some of the
most sacred occasions I’ve ever been part of.”

“You officiated marriages?” he was awed.

“Ah, not me personally, but I witnessed two. Well, three if you count the time
I was six and snuck into one because I was attracted to the congregation of
Force.” she added with a quick grin.

Iaqa smiled, a real smile this time, that reached his eyes, but Saka was
wistful.

“There were a lot of marriages after the Hush. Nobody knew if there was going
to be a repeat, if it was going to be worse. Not all of our Healers are
sensitive, not by a long shot, but they assist a lot. During the Hush, it took
down so much infrastructure. The government started huge initiatives to find
out alternatives in case of another event. Nobody can consider life without
sensitives, but they had to plan for it anyway. Just in case.”

Iaqa stayed silent, his head bent in contemplation. After a few minutes, he
asked:

“One last thing. You said years of therapy.”

Saka closed her eyes and breathed out slowly.

“Let me guess: nobody offered therapy to everyone.”

Iaqa stared.

“Well, no. How would that even work?”

“Not everyone took the offer.”

His eyes widened, and it would have been comical if the context wasn't utterly
awful.

“You mean? Your government actually did that? Oh, of course.”

He seemed to have figured it out, but Saka let him continue.

“They just had a million people directly affected, just on the one planet,
hundreds of millions in the… Union, was it?” Saka nodded. “And probably a lot
of non-sensitives who witnessed the events, and all the healers who were on the
scene and treated you, and the parents and children and siblings and friends
and all the rest.”

“Basically, yes. Also, not everyone reacted the same way. I told you mine, and
Alderaan was worse, but I was young and I’m only moderately sensitive. Some
died.” She spoke in a slightly detached manner, explaining without getting
drawn into the memories. It had taken a long time to be able to speak of it,
and longer still not to break down each time.

“Oh stars. Oh no.”

“Some were only mildly bothered, but they could tell something was very wrong,
so they rushed towards assembly points or to those who they knew were more
sensitive than them. In cities, especially in the daytime parts, there was
panic. But the worst was probably those that were doing their job. Not the
marriage officiants, but the healers,” Iaqa winced then paled as Saka continued
“the surgeons, the pilots.” She glanced at him. “Fortunately very little
casualties. One of the worse was a speeder race that was ongoing,
Force-sensitive division, they all crashed instantly.”

Iaqa was frowning.

“You know, when I think about it. I mean, it was thirty years ago, so maybe
it’s just my memory and wishful thinking. But I’m pretty sure that some pilots
started dropping _before_ the news of Jedha came.”

“So there would be Force-sensitives who just don’t know—” Saka looked excited.

“Or who are hiding.”

She nodded, acknowledging the possibility, and continued.

“Or who are hiding, true. But still, it could mean there’s a lot more out there
than is reported, or that the Jedi knew about.”

Iaqa straightened from where he was sitting.

“I really have to tell all this to _someone_.”

He got up, and offered a hand.

“Want to come with?”

She looked at him for a moment before accepting his help.

“Where are we going? Who are you going to tell?”

“I’d put it through the hierarchy, but… I think this should go straight to the
top. I know someone who knows the Princess, I’m sure we could convince zir.”

“The Princess? _You_ know royalty?” But Saka saw immediately the teasing wasn’t
provoking humour. “I’m sorry—” but he waved her off.

“Nah, you didn’t know. The Princess is not royalty of much anymore. She’s Leia
Organa of Alderaan.”

