Tibar was very young when the Kajain'sa'Nikto all but took over Nal Hutta and
wrenched control of the Hutt's empires from the Old Families. They had just
gotten their name when Jabba was slain. Before that, memories were fuzzy, but
they remembered feelings and heard stories. But Tibar was not bitter and angry
like everyone else around. They had not known the Golden Times, and did not miss
them.

The Hutt may have been dethroned from their crime empires, but had not been
robbed blind, either. All sources of income had dried up, but Tibar doubted any
Hutt would suffer from that for another century, such was the size of the Hutts'
various fortunes.

And without any criminal empire to manage, came the lack of even minor
occupation that would usually have been bestowed upon youth such as Tibar. They
weren't completely free to do as they pleased, as they still received lessons
from various members of their family, but the amount of time to be spent at
their sole discretion took up the vast majority of days and months.

Tibar's slightly-older cousin Epas spent most of her time harranguing the
family's remaining slaves (another thing that had dried up with the end of the
Empire: the Hutts' ability to procure slaves). She was often rebuked by elders
of the family, who actually understood the concept of a finite resource and why
wilfully reducing its life expectancy was a terrible idea. Epas seemed not able
to catch on, though, and always returned to her pastime.

Had Tibar felt like bothering, they'd have put a substantial bet on an Old
Family eventually noticing and punishing the offender. Not with death, as Hutt
life was precious, but with something sufficiently unpleasant as to ensure she'd
get it, this time. Accounting, perhaps. There was nothing quite like endless
hours in humidity-controlled rooms slithering through archive stacks to
recompile an obscure transaction history, all without slaves nor even servants,
as none but the Hutt would ever have access to the Halls of Records.

The Halls were Old. They had been there when the Hutt first arrived on Nal
Hutta, before it was called that because its previous name had been lost to
history. The very lower levels were sealed off, and nothing anyone had tried had
ever managed to open them. The rest had been filled with Hutt Histories, records
of their progress, conquests, business, exploration, politics, regulations, and
prominent Galactic events going back several millennia.

Tibar liked hanging out in the Halls, albeit not near Accounting, Boonta forbid.
There were the most interesting tidbits strewn about the archives. They were
surprised to learn the Old Families had progressively gotten worse and crueler
during the past half millennia. Where slavery and sentient trafficking had been
a fringe activity for most of their history, and in fact disapproved of as a
commercial venture for an age, it had suddenly grown around 490 BBY, until it
dominated all other types of business conducted on Nal Hutta and other
Hutt-controlled worlds, even overtaking good old spice mining in 156 BBY.

Elder Apeda was always going on about respecting tradition and doing as the Hutt
had always done. Tibar wondered if she would appreciate to know that most of her
practices would have been considered extreme by Hutt standards of just half a
millenia ago. Probably not.
