- {Scene: Leia and Han meet with some of the Resistance leadership.}
- {See context in notes/leia-joining-back.md}
- {TK: write what comes before}

"The Republic…" she {TK: Marli Drana, introduced earlier} sniffed. "Well, they
have their goals."

"What is your goal?"

"My goal, our goal, the Resistance's goal…" she looked into the distance. "It
is to reach the Outer Rim. We have a long way until then. Not all of the Inner
Rim is free. Not all of the sectors. The Republic… they are _content_ with
their worlds. They rebuilt. They prosper. But they go no further. They were
only one part of the Alliance. The Republic part. And once their goal was
achieved, once the Republic was restored, they left.

"I was born on Lothal. The Lothal Resistance was part of the Rebellion, and we
folded into the Alliance. But now the Alliance has achieved its goal, has it?
And Lothal, is it free?"

Someone spoke up from the darkness behind her: "I am Oru'suwi. Ryloth is free
under the New Republic. But there are still millions of Twi'lek enslaved
throughout the Galaxy, and I wish to free every last one of them."

Another: "Kott Asaypal. Mandalorians fought against you and alongside you. Our
home world — what remains of it — is still Imperial."

A Togruta stepped up: "My name is ObaaKah Vir. I am from Raada. We got angry,
we rose, we rebelled, we fought, and then the New Republic forgot us."

Another Togruta nodded. "Shili and Kiros are independent, but I will not stop
to fight until all of my people is free."

The leader of the group started again: "We are many. We were unsatisfied by the
New Republic. We went to them in the beginning, we asked, they told us: 'After
we have rebuilt.' That was too long for us. We care about all worlds, not just
those in the Core. So instead of disbanding, we reformed.

"We fought together in the wars, Leia. You were— are my friend. But you've been
away." She held up a hand, stalling a protest that would not have come, as Leia
agreed; she had been away. With a smile, Marli continued: "We understand. There
are many who did, and there are many who joined later. But you've been away,
and you haven't kept up."

She hesitated. "Luke understood," and Leia's eyes widened a bit. "Yes. He
helped us. Were he here… well, those introductions would be different. But he
would do like they did, and speak up, and say he grew up on Tatooine. And
Tatooine, to the exception of maybe one or two cities, is still under the
control of the Hutt Clan on one side and the remnants of the Empire on the
other. If the Jedi Order still existed, still was strong, they could have
deployed their presence once again. But it is not. Yet."

"His adoptive parents are dead, but the friends he'd made? During the first few
years after the defeat of the Empire, he travelled to Tatooine, and he got them
out. Some are with us."

Leia recalled: "He told me. About finding some of his friends from before. I
met one of them! I thought— I didn't realise… I think, I think I kept away from
what reminded me…"

Marli reassured her: "We know. As I said. We understand. But, so. When the
Alliance was disbanded, we came together. And we talked. The Republic wasn't
interested. We didn't want to give up. So we stayed together, and we declared
ourselves. We said—"

And at those words the entire room stood up a bit straighter, and all together
recited, some in a murmur, some loud, some with a smile, some with
determination, most in Basic, some in Shyriiwook, but all with pride:

"We, free beings of the Galaxy, establish a Resistance and declare our
commitment: To fight against tyrannies large and small, yesterday, today, and
tomorrow; To refuse any law contrary to the inalienable rights of all free
beings; To make forever free all beings in the Galaxy; To protect and safeguard
them and their welfare; To resist in and out of our worlds against all those
who would seek to mistreat, to enslave, to corrupt, to destroy."

And there was silence. And then Leia looked at Marli, looked at all those
present, and eyes shining, asked:

"How can I help?"
