She doesn't know how she came to be talking so casually with _General Solo_ but
she suspects it has something to do with being trained by her brother. Rey is
not quite over the Jedi being real and her being one and being trained by the
most famous (or infamous, where she grew up) one in the Galaxy. It's only been
a few months, and sometimes she still wakes up thinking she's on Jakku.

Speaking of…

"I, er, oh. I'm sorry, Genera— Leia" Rey's not quite used to calling someone so
much more important than her by _her name_ ("Oh, nonsense, you call my brother
Luke, don't you?" "Well, I—" "See? Perfectly acceptable.") and she so she
stumbles over the name, pauses, then: "Would you— I mean. You're probably the
only person who can— I've even asked the Admiral—"

"Rey. Breath." The General waits a moment. "Now, what can I do for you?"

"Canyoupleasegivemesomethingtodo?" she breathes, then realises. "Sorry. Um. On
Jakku… I was a scavenger. I _am_ a scavenger. I've been a scavenger for… well,
all my life. It's hard work, and. I don't know how to do nothing."

"Oh."

Leia looks… guilty? concerned? Rey doesn't really know how to read these
expressions yet. Anger, frustration, greed, indifference… those she has plenty
of experience with.

Leia's expression changes to thoughtfulness.

"Yes, I do have something for you. But… you must tell us if you need a break.
You're not military, and even our military needs rest sometimes. You'll be fed
and lodged whatever you do. Just do the best you can, for your work, but most
importantly for you. Okay?"

Rey is pretty sure she's smiling but it's hard to notice what her face is doing
when she's so _excited_ at finally being understood.

"Yes! I mean—" more softly "I can do that. Thank you sir. Er. Leia." then she
goes back over Leia's words. "Wait; not military? But I thought, I mean, you're
the _Resistance_. You're…"

"We're not all military, Rey. We can't be. We're not just a resistance force,
we're the government for one hundred and…" she frowns, trying to remember,
"seventy something worlds, at last count, I think."

Rey stares. Leia laughs softly.

"Yes, that's the reaction many people have, especially those from non-Republic
worlds. Actually, that's pretty much the reaction _I_ had, and I lived in a
Resistance world. I just— didn't know it at the time."

Rey continues to stare.

"You've heard our charter, haven't you?"

Rey nods. _To make forever free all beings in the Galaxy._ is one line she
remembers often.

"Well, we take it seriously. We are very active in trying to liberate worlds,
and then they get a choice, because that's what freedom is about." It sounds
like an oft-repeated argument. "Either they join under the Resistance's banner,
or they go independent (and we'll help get there, if thhey want), or they go to
the Republic, or they join some other free alliance. We have a list. Turns
out," and she sounds… surprised? here, "many worlds choose the first option."

"Well. You _liberated_ them." Rey thinks back to Jakku, and tries to guess at
which option that world would take. And— "What about Jakku? Are you going to…
liberate it?"

"We're working on it. It's a bit more difficult because the First Order
presence is stronger. But we're working on it." Leia smiles encouragingly.

"I." Rey doesn't quite know what to say. Jakku is a difficult topic to think
about, but it was her world, even if she didn't like much of the people on it,
and to hear that it could be free, soon? "_Thank you_" she whispers, before
lapsing into silence.

A moment passes, and then it's interrupted by a commlink crackling.

"I have to go." Leia says as she stands up. Rey scrambles up as well, but Leia
gestures for her to remain down. "I think it's about the time for visitations,"
and for a moment Rey is confused, until she remembers Finn, and immediately
feels self-conscious at momentarily forgetting him, but the General is still
speaking:

"I'll have someone give you something to do… if it's not too much," she waves
her hand, "would you be okay doing a bit of scavenging? We have a lot of old
ships. I understand if you'd rather—" but Rey is nodding, and looks happy, so
Leia stops and acquiesces as well.

"I'll leave you to it, then." glancing towards the med bay doors that have just
open, a healer stepping out.

Rey half-turns, then remembers, and does a little half-bow, then blushes. Leia
chuckles softly, and they part ways.
