"Civil war." She sneered ever so slightly. "Why do they call it that?"

"It's not because of their manner."

"Obviously."

Kylo looked slighted, but she continued uncaring.

"Many forget that soldiers are but civilians, dressed up and trained a little.
They have family. They have emotions. Conditioning helps, as distasteful as
that is, but it doesn't erase humanity."

"We wouldn't want that," Kylo murmured.

"Indeed not." Her tone was softer. It didn't last. "Still, soldiers are
distinguished. The Republic has had its share of personnel falling from grace;
I'd rather not we gain the same reputation."

"Are you saying there is a risk?"

"There is. One of my own. Rumoured to be the best… but he doesn't quite fit
within the FN Corps. Grew up with them, trained with them, flew out with them,
and yet. He's clever, good head. But what's required is cohesion."

She was aware of the reputation the FN Corps had; she'd helped create some of
it, herself. In the mind of anyone in the First Order — and somewhat beyond
into the Unknown Union, although they had their own forces and figures — they
were elite stormtroopers, the stuff of hero legends and boogeymanned as
warnings to disobedient children (or trainees) both.

"You think he'll do better with mine?"

"That, or be forgotten if he disappoints."

The Knights of Ren, or, as they were called by troopers or crew when they
thought they were away from sensitive ears (fools, the lot of them), the
_Knightmares_. Nobody scared trainees, let alone children, with tales of the
Knightmares, though; who knew, they may just have come true.

Phasma knew a little more of the truth: that the Knights were a special unit of
special ops, going for surgical strikes upon high-value high-risk targets, or
for deep assignments within hostile or worse territory. They dressed in black
and communicated silently. What FN-2187 lacked was the ruthlessness and lack of
emotion necessary for the most unfair of the objectives the FN Corps were
sometimes given: he froze and although he had managed to hide it, so far, he
couldn't go through with it. Unleashed upon deserving targets, or at least
trained to disable only when needed, he would be able to flourish further. And
if being part of the Knightmare pushed him too far, well, he would have the
skills to get out and survive.

Kylo simply nodded.

"I have an opening. Have him to me before next week, we will be gone awhile."
