# Daughter of Water

Tales/myth about the Old Fardi, centered around the Daughter of Water (named
Watilda, but rarely referred to like that), a Heir of the Family. The events
that inspired the stories transpired on Thabeska, back when it was a lush and
fertile planet rather than a sandy desert.

At least one of the tales speaks of the Daughter's meeting, getting-to-know,
and subsequent companionship with a commoner's daughter (named Etra Ri, then
Etra, sometimes called Daughter of the Earth).

The stories often show the Daughter being relentlessly generous and fair, as
well as her Family. Some tales for older children, that Naema hasn't heard, but
that Hedala has overheard, speak of the Lady of Water, when the Daughter became
Family Head. Still fair, still generous, but with more political roles and
intrigues. A strong leader rather than a young Heir.

The story of Naema and Hedala reflects some of the stories of the Daughter of
Water and her partner, except they don't happen on Thabeska, this time round.
This is the Star Wars theme: the stories ever repeating throughout the Galaxy.

## Fardi

In Thabeskan, "Fardi" means "family". "Fardi family" is therefore like "curry
meal" or "Lemba bread". But foreign linguistics aside, the Fardi Clan is
literally the living representatives of Thabeskans. They are Thabeska's own
Family. The Fardi Clan Head loses their first name and is simply "Fardi" or
"the Fardi", the living personification of the very concept of family to
Thabeskans.

No two living Fardi Clan members share the same first name, because it is their
only name. Hedala Fardi literally just means "Hedala of the Family". People of
Thabeska talk about individuals within the Clan as "Chenna", as their name, or
as "The Clan" for the collective, keeping "Fardi" only when talking in Basic,
by usage. Foreigners often get confused by the perceived familiarity or
disrespect, when it is anything but.

Referring to a Fardi as "Chenna Fardi" is acceptable in Basic, but frowned upon
if used by a Thabeskan. In Thabeskan, it is borderline insulting, as only
commoners have last names.

## Watilda and Etra

When Etra Ri married Watilda, she became just Etra.

For some reason, perhaps because of the lack of tech at the time, perhaps
because of tradition or morals, or perhaps because that's what the tales
needed, and it wasn't actually true... but nonetheless, Watilda and Etra didn't
have biological children of their own. But they were Fardi. They were the
family of Thabeska. And Thabeska was their family. Their children were the
children of Thabeska.

## Following the water throughout the ages

In the Naming Tale of the Daughter of Water, the tale that gave her the name,
Watilda becomes lost in the wild, then, when it gets dark and she gets hungry
and thirst and homesick, listens to forest, listens to the wild, and hears the
sound of water. She follows the sound to its source, and finds a small stream,
that she then follows, downstream, out of the jungle and to a village. She
knocks on a door and is welcomed into a home as if she was a child of that
family, because she is, she is Fardi, she is Family.

Now, the second part of the tale is about that idea of Fardi and family, and
that stayed the same, and kept the same meaning throughout. But the first part
changed meaning as Thabeska itself changed.

When Thabeska was a forested planet, lush and green, the tale was practical.
Told to children so they remember: if lost in a forest, stay calm, listen, find
the sound of water, find a stream, follow it downstream, and you'll find
civilisation (and from there, your way home).

But now Thabeska is a desert planet. And the tale is told to remind people that
under the sand there is water, and that if you can listen deeply, you can hear
it, far beneath the surface, and if you can listen, the sound of water will
guide you in life. It is told to small children to teach them calm and
patience. It is reminded as one gets older as the guiding principle of the
desert: stay calm (panicking uses more of your own water and breath), stay
quiet (noise attracts predators and can cause sand tremors), listen carefully,
follow carried-over noises to safety. The sound of sand and wind hitting a
cliff face, for example, or the sounds of a city or village.

And metaphorically, the water really is the Force, the sound is its Voice,
guiding all life along the right path, so long as you are willing to listen.
