The concept of the Galaxy Map in this fic is really about two observations I
made based on the movies. Things that didn't make sense, and the way I
reconciled it. I understand that for story purposes it was easier to show it
like they did, but for world-building purposes I searched for a better
explanation.

The first thing is about the very concept of a missing fragment of the Galaxy
Map as shown in TFA by a literal hole in the map where no stars are visible.
That's bullshit. Like, everybody can see the stars. You just go outside and
look at the sky. You have telescopes and sensor arrays. Even here on Earth,
with a pre-space-faring civilisation, we can and have mapped out the galaxy to
a pretty good extent, especially given our limited technology and our
single-system point of view. Star Wars civilisation have much better
technology, but most importantly they have dozens or even hundreds of planets
to take measurements from, and they can travel to any given point in space
using hyperspace or even conventional sublight.

![Ignore the action, look at the sky](./ignore-the-action-look-at-the-sky.jpeg)

Above all that, they have a recorded history of several thousand years as a
space-faring civilisation. Think about all we know about the stars, us, as
humans on Earth. The vast majority of that knowledge was acquired in the last
200 years. So, take that, and multiply it by fifteen, and you'll have a
low-ball estimate of the collected knowledge of Star Wars space exploration.
And that assumes a linear growth curve, which is not at all what we've observed
and experienced here, on our little rock planet.

There is absolutely **no way** that they don't already have the position of
almost all the stars and all the systems and all the planets, although maybe
not all the moons and objects etc, in the Galaxy. No way. So, what they _mean_
by "map" is information. Information _about_ the stars, the planets, the
systems, the hyperspace lanes and beacons. The names of planets, when that's
not well-known. Important features. Population and geopolitical key facts.
Geological statistics for miners and farmers. Persons of interest. All that.

And that's where we come into the second thing about the Galaxy Map concept as
used in this fic's worldbuilding.

In the films, it's not uncommon to see people just plug in coordinates and be
able to go there, at sublight or at hyperspeed, no worries about landing in a
rock or approaching the planet from the wrong side or passing too close to a
star's gravity well. At the same time, it's possible for the map you have to be
outdated, as we saw: "Our position is correct, except… there's no Alderaan!"
And the Star Wars canon includes [cartographers] to explore Wild Space.

In TFA, Rey, who obviously knows quite a bit about the innards of ships and how
to fly them, has little hesitation in getting into a "pile of garbage" that she
knows has been sitting there for years and looks positively ancient anyway,
then plot a course away from the system. People frequently steal ships without
worrying about getting an updated cartography. Heck, people steal ships and
then use them to go to secret bases! How does _that_ work?

My idea is there's a shared cartography infrastructure dating back to the very
beginnings of space exploration, a kind of primordial mesh network that every
ship, every base, every droid can and does hook up to.

Looking at communication systems: Imperial Comlinks, the HoloNet, subspace
radios, Droid stations and control ships… the Galaxy seems to have been
reinventing communication every so often, trying to defeat the trade-off of
bandwidth vs quality vs distance. The HoloNet seems to have been the ultimate
try: capable of communications across the Galaxy or beyond, i.e. several
hundred _thousand_ light years, but it was expensive and apparently too new to
be used by a lot of people for a lot of things, and kept mostly for naval comms
and official broadcasts. Subspace radios, the next best thing and dirt cheap to
use, only had a maximum range of a hundred light years, and the cheapest and
most reliable channel at distances beyond that was, essentially, the postal
service. With hyperspeed freighters, sure, but still mostly physical transfer
of data sticks or holopads or whatever they're called.

But that's recent history, and those people have been flying for millenia. No.
I think, and that's the theory in this fic, that there is an ancient comm
system, a network, that works "somehow" but is easy to build receivers — and
transmitters — for. Perhaps based on quantic or even Force fields (Jedi
routinely _felt_ Force signals, and had visions, transmissions, ghosts, etc…
from clear across the galaxy in apparent real-time, so imagine a network
harnessing the Force to transmit and/or store information, instantly across the
galaxy, but at very low bandwidth), but not in an obvious way. High-fidelity,
very high-distance (maybe even inter-galactical), low-bandwidth, and apparently
impossible to use for anything else than the Galaxy Map.

A strong set of protocols enabling the sharing, galaxy-wide and
publicly-available, of the basic map data: positions and physics of stars,
systems, black holes, etc, as entered and maintained by cartographers and
automated systems. And then a crypted, multi-layered system of "data packs"
capabale of recording and providing (given a key unique to the pack) arbitrary
information about any number of positions on the map. Like the Internet has the
free public interface of DNS servers that provide a reliable, low-latency,
distributed, read/write-but-with-access-controls, optionally-crypted, network
that can store arbitrary data around a common protocol designed to map out
servers and services.

Organisations have tried reverse-engineering it, but so far have made little
progress. The population at large just knows it's there, doesn't even question
it. It was rumoured the Jedi Archives had records dating back to the
establishment of the Galaxy Map, but no-one has put their finger on it so far,
and the Jedi Council was notoriously tight-lipped about details. And with the
eradication of the Jedi by the Empire…

So, the idea is that whenever you update or discover basic map data, you submit
it to the Map, and it's replicated and transmitted and updated across the
entire public mesh. But when you update or discover or collect / put together /
organise data beyond that, you add/update your own data pack. You have a
"write" key, that lets you write to the pack, and you can distribute "read"
keys (for a fee, usually) that let people consume your information.

Cartographers still get to make money, there's a big market for keys, thiefs
can steal key caches, organisations collect and organise huge troves of keys
providing access to vast collections of information. Over the years, decades,
centuries, there's a "standard bundle" of keys that every ship is built with
that provides basic extra information, like the names of planets and systems in
the Known Regions.

Write keys for the packs in the standard bundle are one of the ultimate targets
for slicers or thiefs or treasure-hunters (as some have been lost over the
centuries), as it would give you broadcast access to the entire galaxy, but
it's a niche occupation as a) most people don't even know these details, and b)
most of those who do believe the keys are lost forever or too well protected.

So when Lor San Tekka gives BB-8 the "map to Luke", what he really gives is a
read key for one of Luke's own packs, providing the names of a dozen systems
and safe hyperspace lanes between them, all in the Unknown Regions, as found
(and updated onto the pack) by Luke on his search for the first Jedi temple.

After all, if Luke provided a physical holopad containing the map to get to
where he was, it would mean that either he followed a map made by someone else
(and therefore is not as lost/safe as people apparently think), or that he
_came back_ once he found the place, gave the map to Lor San Tekka, and fucked
off again without saying hello to his sister or allies. On the other hand, if
all he was doing was update, from wherever he was, a data pack that could be
accessed by Lor San Tekka and whomever had the key… then he really did go on a
search for the First Temple.

So that's the Galaxy Map system: firstly, everyone can see the sky, so there's
no way they don't also have a fairly complete map of all the star systems in
the galaxy, and secondly, all the ships know where to go, so they have some
kind of ancient single-purpose network that distributes cartographic base data
to everyone, plus some extra information, but crypted.

Now, in the films, and in the visualisation systems the droids have and
project, it might well be represented as empty holes in the galactic layout,
but that's not really how it actually works.

[cartographers]: http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Auric_Graf
