The Galaxy Map is a distributed system where every star and planet and station
and relay and trade route and hyperspace lane is available to everyone as
they're added by anyone, with a few exceptions, mostly things hidden by people
who really don't want to be found or by militaries or other governments. But
generally, all those things are publicly accessible.

What's not is the Overlays: data that provide various proprietary advantages or
information: shipping routes, travel logs, positions of ships in a fleet,
records of economic situations, lists of people known to be somewhere, etc.

Each Overlay is crypted with a Key, and you need the Key to access the Overlay,
but for convenience and updating purposes the Overlays are also part of the
distributed Galaxy Map.

That means that all you need to access the information is a Key, which is
portable and uncomplicated, and can be much more easily destroyed or scrambled
permanently without any chance of recovery in case it's needed. It also means
the Key to an Overlay can be changed.

There's a number of Keys that are in free circulation, there's an entire black
market for stolen or "found" keys, and every pilot, every organisation, big or
small, has their own collection of Keys.

Acquiring Keys is a strategic essential. This is generally Admiral Phasma's
dominion for the First Order, but Master Kylo has his own stash, and the
Knights of Ren also have their own supplemental collections, both obtained
through their missions and forged from their own data.

The Resistance has their own collection, which includes what was recovered from
the Old Republic, plus they have made a bunch more since.

The New Republic was given all the Keys of the Rebellion, minus some
specialised and secret ones, and what was recovered from the Old Republic, as
well as some of the Empire's Keys as defined by treaty. Then they made theirs.

Both of these last two also share some newer ones as they are allied.

Cartographers (like the Graf family) published the base positions of systems to
the Map, and then sold Keys to Overlays with more information.

Organisations operating in the Unknown Regions pushed to the extreme, firstly
in coverage as the Galaxy Map network requires relays... which aren't
necessarily documented in the URs... but also by using crypted Overlays to map
systems. However, to get around limitations, they would mark stars as
free-floating planets, or as other objects not required to be included on the
main Map. As a result, navicomps had difficulty plotting accurately, and the
gravity wells were often not well defined, causing hyperspace jumps to be
fraught. Additionally, a large amount of *false* cartographies presented as
real ones float around the black markets, both by opportunists trying to make
money, or by UR residents trying to confuse Knwon Regions explorers. All that
means you either have to be part of an organisation that knows its stuff, or be
extremely knowledgeable yourself, to be able to get around the UR safely.
