# vim: tw=80

A heavy coat is generally called a **parka**.

While **fucking** is relatively commonstance, **kriffing** or other
similar-sounding paranyms are much more frequent.

The colloquial language is generally more scientific than ours. Instead of
birds, say **avians**.

All machines are on **repulsors**, but not all machines are **droids** (not
robots, not bots, not artificials). Droids have sentience.

The generic term for people is **sentient beings**. On Empire-controlled worlds,
that's often said as **men** even while the actual makeup of the group may be
mixed; that's because of the Empire's latent human-centrism and subtle sexism.
"Sentient beings" is fairly long, so it is often shortened to **sentients** or
**beings**. Occasionally the alternate term **sapient** is used.

The **Lothal Calendar** is the same in origin as the **Union Calendar**, with a
Year Zero on the Treaty of Coruscant. However, while the Union had precise
synchronised timekeeping because of their important naval industry of the time,
Lothal relied solely on planetary, non-relativistic time for about two millenia,
which ended up skewing the calendar by about four centuries. **3277 LY** is
around the same time as **3652 UY** which is around the same time as **0 ABY**.

The “period when one is/was a **Padawan**” can be called a **Padawancy**.

While a **travel port** is more suited to touristy / urban situations, a **space
port** is the generic term for a facility where spaceships can land, depart, and
generally be catered to.

A **datapad** or **pad** is a rigid tablet generally used to retrieve, hold,
browse, input, or process data. A **datastick** or **stick** is a small memory
hold that can be attached to a datapad or other systems. A **flexipad** is a
rigid enclosure that accepts **flexiplasts**, used for similar purposes but with
less capabilities and more of an emphasis on documents and input than arbitrary
data. A flexiplast, or **plast**, **flexi**, is a soft, flexible, rollable,
foldable, sheet of “smart material” that holds a document. While flexis are
usable on their own, attaching/inserting (depending on the model) to a flexipad
enhances capabilities and enables easier input/transfer as well as more powerful
editing/analysis tools.
