Honestly, I don't care about the problems with the concept nor the controversy,
and it's canon now, so deal.

The neat thing with midichlorians though, is that canon states that they are
present in every living being, and that it's the concentration within a being
that determines whether they're trained by the Jedi and/or can use the Force
for anything useful. But it's a _spectrum_, right. Because _everyone has them_.

An implication of that is that if you had an entire population with just the
right minimum level of midis, just enough that they can sense when the Force
screams, e.g. when many people die or a star explodes or something, they could
sense it. They wouldn't necessarily _know_ what had just happened, but they
could be like "wtf".

Hence, the Hush. This is an event that happened on many worlds and ships, at
the time of Alderaan's destruction: everybody stopped and Hushed for a moment.
At the same time. Throughout the Galaxy. Now, everyone _within_ the Rim heard
pretty soon after that about the destruction of Aldeeran, so they call the
event that. But peoples _outside_ the Rim? They didn't have access to Rim news.

The Ascendency was involved in the wars through Thrawn, so also got to know of
Aldeeran, and call it the same.

Within the Union and its Territories, it got called The Hush.

Some nomadic post-Rim tribes called it the Quiet Storm, and so that alternate
name made it to the Union worlds when they reached the place for trade, and
while it's recognised by some subcultures, especially in trading circles, it's
not very common. Similarly, the name 'The Hush' got picked up through the
nomads via the trader tribes, but it's not what they call it the most.

Other post-Rim societies (and some from beyond the Galaxy!) had other names.

It was the subject of many discussions and speculation and stories in post-Rim
societies, and still is. The Empire's incomings to Union territory, and the
news they brought with them, also brought understanding that Alderaan was the
reason for The Hush, but the name and stories were too entrenched at this point
to disappear.

Also, The Hush was traumatic for a non-insignificant population of the Union.
No Jedi Order here! There are other Force groups, but mostly there's also a
recognition that all are sensitive (even very faintly) and affected by the
Force, and some are more or less sensitive or affected. So when a bunch of kids
and loved ones across the worlds were strongly stricken by the Hush, that got
noticed. Therapists worked with Hush-touched people for years before its cause
was revealed.

That did _not_ endear the Empire to anyone.
