The idea is that the fic is _told_ in Basic, and this representation is merely
a translation in English. Of course, that's not so, but I simply pretend.

Throughout writing and researching and thinking for this fic, I have tried to
imagine what it would be like for a society like the Star Wars Galaxy,
considering their very long history with better-than-us-right-now technology
from the onset, some 30+ millenia ago. In this particular context, that means
imagining a language that's common to an entire Galaxy, evolved while the
existence and cohabitation of thousands of varied species and billions of
communities is everyday reality.

While expressing multiple (more than two) genders in English and French and
most other Earth-contemporary languages is _awkward_ right now, it's only been
a few centuries at best. Thus, the way I'm thinking of Basic is as a language
that has _built-in_ gender (and thus pronouns) indications that do not rely on
non-language cues (i.e. appearance, presentation, tone of voice, etc). That is,
from the very moment someone speaks as, to, or about a person, everyone
listening knows how to address them. There is no "I use those those pronouns".
Instead, the very way you speak is an indication for "this is how I am".

Of course, the language genders have names, and can be talked about, and can be
changed. The most common way to change, yourself, is to speak using the right
form (which, as above, will indicate how you want to be addressed), but e.g. if
someone is writing a report or want to clarify or something, they can be like
"oh and Pron'nii has switched to third gender".

So that's the general theory.

Now, the specifics of how I've figured this, is that Basic has five core
genders. They're named First, Second, Third, Neutral, and Agender. Neutral and
Agender speak for themselves, and Neutral is special in that it can be used to
cover all other ones. Basic also has a mechanism for using _other_ genders and
forms, but these five are the most common in use.

Why First, Second, and Third? Because different species, heck, different
communities have different biologies and genders and conventions. Why have
genders called "Male" and "Female" if those end up not being used at all within
a sizable portion of the speakerbase because they don't match?

So instead, I've figured that Actual Genders are _mapped_ onto those three _by
convention_. In Humans, First is Female, Second is Male, Third isâ€¦ well,
genderqueer, essentially. There's a higher incidence of using extra genders in
Humans than in most species, just to express the sheer amount of variety that
is there, but they're not the most gender-diverse species _by far_. (A meta
note: First Female, Second Male was not picked to make any kind of statement. I
just tossed a coin.) Due to humanocentrism, Human-female-looking genders in
non-human-species also _tend_ to be mapped to First, but it's not guaranteed.

Also there are entire communities of Humans that have these mapped differently.

Why only First, Second, and Third? Mostly arbitrarily. In-universe, during the
time Basic evolved, it was recognised that for 95% of species and people in the
Galaxy, there are at most three main genders. This was not an extremely
conscious thing, either: Early Basic has a lot more genders by default, going
as far as 27 in Ancient Basic, but then the set reduced and changed through
usage and mores. Out-of-universe, I wanted to have something that was more
easily mapped to English.

Droids are a complex topic. Generally, _personalised_ droids, that is droids
who have a personality, and are recognised as such, are addressed by default
with Neutral (but may pick their own form). Non-personalised droids, as well as
non-droid AI, are addressed (usually talked _about_ rather than really _to_)
using Agender, or even with the grammar-markers for "inanimate" or "object".

Neutral is the default when you don't know or when it is not relevant.

In English, for Humans, I generally map like this:

 - **she/her/her** - First
 - **he/him/his** - Second
 - **zie/zir/zir** - Third
 - **they/them/their** - Neutral
 - **it/it/its** - Agender

But this may vary in places, considering how the story flows and what I've got
on the specific character.

