Core historians call it The Lost Republic of Unteli.

Unteli and various other worlds nearby refused to take part in the Treaty of
Coruscant, so they're not listed within, and they thereafter retired from Rim
affairs, and thus their name disappeared from the records. After they passed
from most living memory, historians looking back could see mentions and
outright descriptions of a flourishing and prosperous republic, with which many
worlds traded and had dealings with. But they were absent from the Treaty and
from any recording thereafter. Without the knowledge of their voluntary
absence, and without any worlds on the available maps with the name Unteli,
speculation started, with theories around the world being renamed ("to what?"
was the subject of many dissertations) or a cataclysm ocurring that wiped it
off the map ("Sith!" some cried, while others wondered why such a catastrophy
was also not recorded).

In truth, Unteli lies beyond the Rim, past some ferocious plasma winds that
forbid all but the largest and strongest of ships to pass through, and utterly
mangles communications. Only the Force may pass through, and with it the Galaxy
Astrography System. To survive and trade there, Unteli had developed some of
the best navy technologies. But after Coruscant and their withdrawal from the
Rim, that withered. Three and a half millenia later, they still are a republic,
and they have some of the best ground-to-space armament in the Galaxy, as a
protection against attackers from other Outside or Beyond places.

Unteli and the Union around it uses the Treaty of Coruscant, callled there the
Withdrawal From The Rim, or simply Year Zero, as their calendar epoch. Year
Zero ABY is therefore Y3653 in Unteli.
