Jeira gets married days before the first Imperial officer steps off his shuttle
and takes over governance of Thabeska. She was strongly advised to do so during
a Holonet conversation with Bren, who heard from Higor, who was directed to
relay the message by a Fardi. So it's solid info.

The Empire is coming. The Empire has already claimed Thabeska as its own, merely
days after the attempt on the Supreme Chancelor and the Jedi massacre and the
disbanding of the Republic.

The Empire is days old and already known for not being particularly kind to
anything that deviates from its model of what beings should look like and behave
like. Beings should look human; beings should obey.

Thabeska, in a way, is lucky: it has no native population and is 90% humanoid.
It is also sufficiently far into the Outer Rim that a certain level of
lawlessness will be tolerated. It also has a strong and old history under a
hybrid democratic and autocratic model. It's a small planet with little in the
way of valuable exports or resources; it's not even on a traderoute!

The marriage frenzy is an administrative precaution, to create a paper proof and
bureaucracy-recognised guarantee. It won't change anything: Jeira has been
living with Beca for more than ten years. They moved in together rather
precipitously when Beca got pregnant, but it was a long time ago now.

It doesn't help calm Jeira's nerves. She wishes they could have done this
properly. She frets as she tells Beca, but softens at their easy smile and
embraces them for reassurance.

"It'll be alright," they soothe. "We'll go tomorrow while Naema is at school."

It takes more time to get to the townhall and back than to go through the entire
process, even accounting for queuing. It's early yet in the morning, just before
ninth hour, and according to the flimsi they're given as they wait, they're the
47th family of the day.

Jeira calms a toddler for family number 53 as the father calms his partner,
trying not to let her own anxiety show through, when they're called on. Names
and ident chips are checked by a droid, their religious preference enquired on.
(No requirements for either of them; Jeira knows Beca's family subscribes to a
small Temple on their home planet, but they haven't visited in years.) Too fast,
they're guided to a chamber where a volunteering Fardi is waiting, looking
extraordinarily tired.

Any other time, Jeira would have been awed at the idea of being married by the
Family, but right now all she feels is worry: if the situation is so dire that
Fardi are running _themselves_ ragged, filling the gaps of public servants with
their own numbers, things really are not well.

"Sit down, please," she implores him after they've been greeted. "You look like
you need a rest. Please."

A grateful smile and words of thanks, yet they soon get through the ceremony.

Beca hooks their arm into hers as they walk out.

"How about a honeymoon, hmm?"

They pull her down and brush their lips against hers. Jeira holds them closer
and kisses them deeply, before turning back to the speeder, expecting a
playfully frustrated groan.

"Let's get back home first, dear." she smiled, taking her place and turning
to face Beca, who is already stepping forward.

"Mmm, yes, let's get some privacy, dearly mine. We'll need it."

--------


