“See you tomorrow,” she called out before walking out. She stopped on the porch,
still within cover of three walls, and fitted her mask before adjusting her
hood, then stepping into the dust fog.
 
The sun was still out, but with its light and heat filtered by the dirt
suspended in the air, it was nippy. She tucked a loose fold into her belt,
repressed a shiver that wouldn't help, and started the long walk home. Another
day brushing the grime out of recycled components, another day avoiding her
supervisor at pause times, another walking into the dust instead of waiting with
the others for a barely climatised transport into the residential quarters. If
it had been a doubting day, if she'd convinced herself that she would always be
stuck here, in this job, on this dirt ball, she'd have taken the small comfort
and talked with Atali and Juko of the weather, the work, the co-workers, perhaps
even giggled shyly when topics veered to one's or the other's sex life. 
 
But today she believed, so she walked, and she detoured through to the cantina,
nodded in the direction of the bar, waved after a greeting by another regular,
and passed into the backroom. There, she ignored the crokin tables, held her
breath through the haze of spice vapour, and headed to a little dark room. As
she pulled open the door, a Mon Calamari with his skin scarred from being
desicated, a consequence of living on a planet where water was at a premium,
according to his stories, leaned out and sniffed at the air, grimacing and
mumbling about storms. He noticed her and showed himself out, letting her have a
turn with a parting comment: “one day I'll beat your score, Naema, just you
wait.”
 
“One day.” She smirked as she closed the door, settled into the simulator, and
loaded the program for a takeoff from Takodana, wherever that may be. The lush
jungle was unlike anything she'd ever seen or was likely to see here, but
negotiating the foliage and giant fauna was a good warmup before switching to
hyperlane navigation on the Coruscanti traderoute, or the three dimensional
air-taxi traffic on busy Serenno.
 
After two hours in the box, she emerged and went to buy a drink at several times
the real price, in the agreed-upon way to compensate the owner and bartender for
the use of the facilities without eliciting undue suspicion.

Alexis noticed her coming out and shifted over, put his elbow on the bar so
close to her drink that she worried about him bumping it over for a moment, and
started talking at her. She smiled as gossip about everything from common
neighbourhood concerns to the colour of crops in the southern hemisphere's
farmlands to the score on the current games of... some sport she wasn't actually
sure the details of, as she'd stopped paying attention about five words into the
spiel.

The ritual was both about allowing the man a safe outlet for his innate desire
to talk the ear off someone with asinine details of the daily life of feral cats
around the city -- both real and metaphorical -- and a cover for anyone looking
in her direction. Alexis was as gay as they came, Naema was Not Interested, and
that effectively stopped anyone assuming otherwise having a try.

It was also a good way to share information, like the new route of the curfew
patrol. It was likely third or fourth hand information, her companion having
little use for it as he was a permantent resident of this very establishment, 
so not the most precise, but still good to know.

When she got back to her street, the sun was setting, leaving her with a
comfortable margin of minutes before curfew patrol was due to to pass through.
She unlocked her door with a bioscan, a security measure that was perhaps
overkill here, at the far edge of the city, but not so uncommon a few blocks
further towards the center that it would be noticed.

She steps in, closes the door behind her, and says hello to her parents' picture
in the hallway. The holo had been taken before Empire Day celebrations, in their
nicest garb, but without the backdrop of troopers nor Imperial decorations
hanging from official buildings yet.

She climbed up to the roof and looked at the ballet of shuttles coming and
leaving before the closing of the astroport. Today was a normal day in this
regard, which in her datapad's detailed notes, meant there was no regular
service arriving nor leaving. Thabeska wasn't visited by transport lines very
often. Most of the traffic was planet-local, and the little portion that was
interstellar was mostly Fardi cargo traffic, which ran on a random schedule, as
far as talking to drunk pilots and her own observations went.

When the second patrol clambered past her house, she sighed, looked at the
stars, hopeful and wishful both, and went to sleep.

