When Palpatine denounced the Jedi as traitors and established his Empire, Patra
was in a conference room with five other ranking members organising the pilot rotation for the next three
months, and his highest worry was when to schedule his niece TK who had finished
training but had as of yet no real experience.

An aide burst in, ignored all the outraged cries about the meeting being
important and private and _only for command_ and made a beeline for Patra, who
stood up to receive the message. The aide, he thought her name was TK, appeared
shaken and dazed, and he immediately thought of the worst: a catastrophic
accident involving a core family member, perhaps. That was what he had steeled
himself himself for.

When the aide explained, he blinked and sat down, and then made her repeat it,
and then another time. And then he sat there, for what seemed an eternity
(reviewing the situation he learned it was less than a minute, and even then >< he had
difficulty believing it, <--with the recording on the meeting).

When he finally had half-processed the information, he'd jumped to his feet,
bousculing the aide who was hovering, unsure what to do, and ordered all present
to recall every ship that could make the jump, and instruct all others to stop,
secure their positions, and await further instructions.

"Lock everything down. Shut it all down. Freeze the accounts. No! Buy up all the
hard goods you can, stuff that won't depreciate, spend... 10% of our Republic
credits. And not on Thabeska! Buy elsewhere. Not in the Core."

Then he'd left in search of his immediate family. Everyone was family… but he
needed his wife and children. He needed his brother, whom he missed every day
and especially this day.

That had been three months ago. They had been scrambling, shock after shock,
with no time to adapt, everyone on deck and not at their usual positions.
Nothing had ever prepared him for this. There had been no plans for situations
like this for the past five centuries (they had looked: the last plan had some
salvageable parts but otherwise was so outdated as to be useless).

Yesterday had been the first day things had felt like they were calming down a
bit. He had waited all day, tense, and when the evening came he'd ordered
everybody to take a breather over the next three days, one third of the force at
a time.

He'd planned to supervise and hold the fort in the meantime. His wife had
literally sat on him until exhaustion took him to sleep, the pretty traitor that
she was. His first thought upon waking was that he would have to thank her.

-----

He feels like he hadn't slept in a hundred years.

"You haven't, Patra. We were all really worried."

Ah, he said that out loud. He shields his eyes against the light and sees TK,
half dressed, bags under eyes, smiling shakily. He wonders how long _she_ slept.

"More than you, you mad man. You're not going to like your face in the mirror
this morning." She looks amused, yet incredibly tired.

He supposes that's justified.

"TK. Thank you, for…" he trails off when she waves him off.

"Thank _you_ for going to sleep, you idiot." she huffs.

"Well, you sat on me." he protests.

"Yes, and this time it worked!" At his bewildered look, she pointed: "and
_that's_ why. You don't remember, do you?"

"What?"

"We've tried to drag you off to sleep at least two dozen times in the past two
months, Patra. Did you even notice that half your orders were not getting done?
We had to have several people shadow you constantly the last two weeks to undo
the more inane of your commands, because _you haven't been getting enough sleep
and were getting ridiculous._" she stabbed him with her finger to punctuate her
words.

They had? He had? Patra tries hard to remember what he's done yesterday…
yesterday was a day of waiting. Okay, the day before. He frowns, then speaks
aloud, raising a hand to indicate he's not asking a question.

"I'm just working through this. The day before yesterday, it was quieting down,
but we still had an issue with pilots arriving after curfew."

TK nodded.

"The day before that…"

"Ninthday," she supplies.

"Ninthday. There was the fire in the north side, and the food crisis in TK. Two
schools closed. And there was the spice shipment that we intercepted and had to
figure out where to return."

He feels quite proud he's remembered all this.
Perhaps it's not as bad as his wife thinks. When he looks at her that illusion
shatters.

"Well, you got the major events right. But that wasn't ninthday."

Oh. "Well, eigthday, then."

She grimaces.

"Seventhday?" he asks uncertainly.

"Patra… these events happened during this entire week. The fire raged for four
days before we finally put a stop to it. The food crisis is still going. Two
schools closed last week, this week we've lost five more."

No. No, that's not possible. That is— that is a disaster.

"Nononono." TK is suddenly there, holding him. "No. Look. You were really tired,
but also you've been carrying us all, us _all_, through this. You got a bit
loopy near the end, and _we supported you_. We did everything so that the entire
thing would keep running just like you would want it, because we knew that's how
you'd want it. Everyone pitched in. And everyone still looked up at you for
direction. You took a hard situation, a terrible situation, something no one was
prepared for, and you turned us into an organisation that is ready to
_survive_."

She holds his face and kisses his cheek and hugs him tightly.

"This isn't bad. This isn't your fault. It's going well. There were days…" she
swallows. He thinks he knows what she's referring to, and he subconsciously
shivers. "But we got through them, thanks to you."

She looks in his eyes.

"But now we need you to rest. You ordered everyone to rest. Well, mister, that
includes you. We assembled the council and voted on it: you gotta rest. You're
not going out there tonight. Doctors' orders."

Surely, he has to monitor all sorts of things, surely he will have to get out
anyway. She reads his thoughts as they're painted on his face.

"I'll bring you paperwork if it's really urgent, but the only other people
you'll see today are your daughters."

Oh. Oh! Eyes wide, he turns towards TK then turns towards the door, then turns
towards TK again.

"Yes, your daughters, Patra. Our children? You know, about yee high" she mimes
three different heights "hair dark like me, always running after us? Remember
them, now?"

"Yes, yes, woman, sheesh. I might not remember all I did these past few weeks
but I'm pretty sure I remembered our daughters. I remember having dinner…"

"You did, yes. Don't you worry about that," she reassures him. "And the dinners were always great,
even if they tended to be interrupted often and not everyone was there all the
time."

Right. Dinners. Dinners with his family and…

"Chenna and Hedala, too. They were there." Of course they had been. They are
_family_. Chenna is the _heir_. He is their uncle, and with his brother and
their mother… _oh, Tristan, if you could see what this world has gone to._

TK is smiling at him, now. His thoughts are starting to return in earnest,
although he still has trouble putting times, even relative times, to events. He
knows intellectually that the fire was earlier in the week, but he still thinks
of it "yesterday". Perhaps to his body, that's it is, if he's had as little
sleep as he understands.

He half-remembers suggesting using flying transports to extinguish the fire, and
frowns at himself for the foolishness this would have been, with the measures
and the scrutiny put in place by the Empire. He is grateful he has such a
competent family and team behind him that is bold enough to stop his directives
from causing damage he would never have wanted. He will need to thank everyone
so, so much.

He takes stock of where he is, what his body feels like. When he sniffs
experimentally, his wife starts laughing.

"Yes, you stink, husband-mine. Go to the fresher, and not sonic, use water." She
softens. "If you think you can do it."

He stands up with care, and flexes his knees to test his strength. He wobbles a
bit, but is steadied.

"I could use your help to get there, I think, but I should be fine once inside."
he asks.

TK gets off the bed and stands next to him, and takes his arm when he offers it,
interlacing his fingers with hers. They walk slowly to the ensuite fresher, and
she darts to open the door after ensuring he can stand alone for a moment. Then
she helps him undress.

For a moment he thinks she's going to get into the fresher with him, but she
grins at him and turns away, bundling his clothes and backing out of the room
watching him carefully, ready to leap and help him at the first sign of trouble.
He smiles and waves her off, steady. He'll be fine for a minute.

The water rushes around him, and he closes his eyes, enjoying the sound and feel
of being warm and wet. He reopens them quickly, not wanting to inadvertently
doze off. That wouldn't be very smart of him, if he wanted to see the outside of
his room anytime soon.
