The thing that surprised most Patra when he finally returned among the living
and started figuring out what he'd done during his weeks on little sleep is that
he apparently hired someone and doesn't actually remember doing so _at all._

She's a young Togruta with orange skin and blue-white lekku, and she's a decent
enough mechanic, but really Patra thinks she's a pilot, trying to hide. Her
knowledge is too specific in the right ways and too general in the wrong ones.
What throws Patra off, now that he's had time to really see her, is how young
she is.

Despite living most of his life on Thabeska, and despite being a fairly average
human (aside from the whole 'head of the ruling clan of a planet' thing), he has
traveled extensively around the Galaxy since he was a teenager and well into his
adulthood, until he had to stay onworld most of the time when he took up the
headship. He knows and has known many Togruta, TK, and other species with lekku
or similar appendages.

This Togruta is _very_ young.

That she's likely a pilot and has a lot of mechanic knowledge and knows more
languages than she advertises and managed to position herself the right way to
the right people to be hired in a time of crisis paints an interesting picture
that only few profiles match. One of these is now unspeakable.

She gave her name as Ashla, but he has little doubt it is fake. He will not pry,
though. If she is, or was, what Patra believes, there are now strong reasons for
him not to reveal her, and pushing her at the wrong time would likely result in
unwanted attention both for her and them.

So he doesn't pry. He also submits his conjectures to the newly-formed Clan
Council, who agree that the information should not leave the room, and that they
should obscure what clues there are to protect her identity and nature. The
Council quickly surfaces another issue:

"If she's Jedi," begins Chenna, "she likely can detect truth-saying. We should
be careful what we say around her, and how we explain changes to her situation
if we're doing so for reasons we cannot disclose."

"In that case, we should relay all instructions through at least one non-Council
person." advises TK. "I've been reading through what records we have that deal
with Jedi and I believe one level of indirection should be sufficient for a
young Jedi, especially one who might not have finished her training."

"Why were you looking for interactions with Jedi, TK?" asks Patra, curious.
Unless they'd already figured Ashla out before he came to them…

"I was wondering why there were no Jedi in the Clan. We have a long recorded
history and statistically there should have been several Jedi in our numbers."

Patra starts to speak; he knows this. But Chenna speaks at the same time and he
gestures for her to carry on. As the Clan Heir, she needs all the practice she
can get. Learning and sharing (at the right time and with the right audience)
Clan Head histories is part of it.

"In 2503 TK made a pact between Thabeska and the Jedi Order after an… incident?"
she looks up to Patra, but he remains impassive, wanting her to decide what to
say on her own. "There was a child of the Clan who was rendered an orphan a few
years prior. The child manifested latent abilities upon witnessing an
intervention by the Jedi. The Order tried to entice them to join using some very
offhanded tactics that were essentially coercion."

There's a gasp and a number of Council members look grave. Every citizen of
Thabeska is precious, and even more so members of the Clan, but children are the
future. To attempt to steal a child of the Clan is not only shocking, it is
grounds for a feud. That Jedi, the Galaxy's erstwhile peacekeepers, did this…

Patra picks up the story to provide the relevant details when Chenna indicates
with an air of desperation that she doesn't know enough to continue.

"The child never left Thabeska and the situation was resolved. The Jedi involved
claimed they were unaware of the _cultural_ significance of their act. TK agreed
to let them off, as it were, if the Jedi Order never recruited on Thabeska or
citizens of Thabeska again. Not just Clan. No Thabeskanì at all."
