Jeira opens the door carefully, peeks out beyond Beca waiting to enter, then
ushers them inside along with their daughter. Much has changed in the past few
months.

One of the first measures to have been established was a curfew, strictly
enforced, from just before the sun dipped to just after it rose. Troopers
patrolled the streets all the time, curfew or not, and were more likely to knock
you out and drag you to the station than to ask questions and escort home.

But business hours had not reduced much. Everyone rushed from sun up to sun
down, and no one strolled along in the streets anymore. There was no time, and
the new enforcers were happy to invent an offense for anyone who sticked out.

The Fardi were no help, publicly at least. Jeira knew of two members of the
Family who distributed food discreetly and provided transport for the less
fortunate who lived far away from the city districts they worked in. But even
they were downcast and urging caution and quiet.

Schools had been left alone, tankfully, apart from a change of curriculum where
history was concerned. Not only was the Republic's wide-ranging course scrapped
for one focusing on the Empire's propaganda and made-up history, but all
material that even touched upon the local stories and legends was heavily
discouraged.

Beca had explained to Naema that she shouldn't mention Jeira's old occupation,
not even to friends she trusted. Naema had understood more than what had been
said, brilliant child, and suddenly all who had ever been witness to
storytelling by Jeira and any other had forgotten the event entirely.

Jeira still told stories, but only to her family. She missed storytelling to
wider groups, to captivated children, to smiling adults, even to restless
teenagers. She missed the drawn breaths when she paused at a critical moment,
and the glances between young lovers at the romantic parts, who thought they
were being discreet.

But she knew as long as the Imperial presence and mindfulness did not relent,
she would not be able to tell and weave the tales. Her family came first, and
her own safety.

She worried about Naema. She was angry about Naema, at the Empire. The Empire
that came and stole her daughter's smile. Everyone was stressed and unhappy, but
adults shouldering burdens was their roles. Children being deprived of
happiness, of childhood, of friends… that should not be happening. That was not
right.

She had no illusions about the new regime, but this was still infuriating.

"You're brooding again, Jeira."

That was Beca. Sweet Beca, her love. Jeira glances at her daughter (facing the
other side, working on home assignments) and pulls her wife down for a kiss.

"I _am_ brooding. Thank you for reminding me, dearest."

"And now you're sappy." Beca replies, smirking.

"Hush, you."

They stay in their embrace a moment, watching their child bent over her work,
and taking comfort in each other, in their family, that was still whole.

Many families had disappeared or been fragmented. Some by their own choice,
leaving the city or even the planet, fleeing to isolated land in the wilder
parts of Thabeska, or to moons, stations, small planets out of reach of the
Empire. Many, however, had been taken into custody, or simply not shown up one
morning.

Naema had stopped talking of friends, and it took days until she revealed none
of her friends remained in the school. Indeed, not many students were left. A
month later, the school had closed, the students sent home. Searching for
another was futile: Beca found out theirs had been one of the last holdouts.

They had joined a network of parents and now-unemployed teachers who provided a
little schooling, when they could, via materials distributed first through the
Holonet, and then by hand and dead-drops when most of the Holonet was shuttered.

The day it happened, Beca had cried. They had just lost the only connection to
their grandparents and other, more distant family, without warning, without
being able to say anything. Visiting was unlikely as well, not because of flight
limitations, but because the cost of transport had skyrocketed. Where it had
been an expensive holiday before, it was now more credits than they had together
for a one-way passage.

They considered it still, but not to go to Beca's grandparents, which had also
been overrun by the Empire. But where to go? Neither of them knew. There were
whispers and rumours and recommendations going on all sides, but none they
thought they could trust.

Jeira was also hyper-aware of the risk to themselves. She and Beca had stashed
possessions and credits and sellable goods — in case credits stopped being
useful anymore — and told Naema about some of the places, in case of emergency.

She hoped, she prayed, she tried to believe that nothing would happen to them.
That they would all stay together. But they had to be prepared.

Without storytelling and with the repression of history and frivolities, she had
had to find a new job, both to remedy the loss of income and to appear more
legitimate to any control and any patrol. At first, she had found work in the
library, but that soon shut down, as people had no time and as very little media
escaped restrictions. 

After a flurry of smaller tries, getting further and further away from her own
field of predilection, she had finally found a stable job she thought would not
disappear any time soon: as a clerk for a shuttle-repair business. While
offworld travel had slowed to a trickle, shuttles and other transports were
heavily used in atmosphere. It wasn't an exciting or even a particularly
interesting job, but it paid, it had reasonable hours so she could take care of
her family, and it was boring enough that no one would look at it twice (that
was her hope, at least).

She knew she was lucky to find such a job, and privileged that she had a partner
and enough margin to be able to look for one. Many others she had encountered in
her job search didn't have that luxury. She had tried to help wherever she
could, but in the end she had to find work herself. She hated the new system for
placing so many in bad situations while at the same time actively preventing
others helping them.

Beca had waited until Jeira had achieved a good situation before asking for more
hours at their own workplace, and that had been a mistake: when they finally
asked, their company had hired a lot more who, like Jeira, were looking. All
positions were more than filled, workloads shared between more people who each
worked less.

Beca understood that it was better for the company, and even acknowledged that
is was better for all employees, but it still felt like they had missed an
opportunity and they couldn't help but be frustrated at the situation. As a
result, they also felt guilty at being annoyed at others for taking ‘their
place’.

Despite all that, life on Thabeska wasn't awful. The rumours of what the Empire
was doing, away from here, into the Inner and Middle Rim, were frightening and
shook everyone's established knowledge of how the Galaxy worked: nobody cared
about the Outer Rim worlds but the worlds themselves, and even through the Wars
the Inner Rim and the Core had known peace. Now it seemed that wasn't true
anymore, and the implications for the violence that could be unleashed onto
Outer Rim worlds were terrifying.

There was no Imperial Senator for Thabeska. If the Empire tired of terrorising
the Mid-Rim worlds, nothing would stop them here, and more than that: no one
would know. That, more than anything, gave Jeira trembling nightmares. Not just
the thought of her own self and family suffering, but the loss of thousands of
years of tradition and histories passed down through the families of Thabeska.

Those histories were her life, had been her life, second only to her family, to
Beca and Naema. She would work to preserve them all even if it took all she had.

Jeira emerges from her thoughts and wonders how she made it from Beca's arms to
the kitchen table. The latter is fixing dinner, and Jeira looks at them with
adoration, waiting for the waking fog in her mind to clear.

Beca seems to sense she's being observed, and turns around.

"You drifted off again," they say softly, amused. "You sat here on autopilot
when I walked back, and didn't let me go until you fell asleep."

"You should have woken me up." Jeira is mortified.

"You need your rest, love. And it wasn't a bother, really. Come on, tell me what
you think."

They offer a spoonful of a dark blue dish, that smells creamy but doesn't look
it. Jeira blows on the spoon before trying.

"It's delicious."

"Got the recipe from Dallas — a newbie on the floor." Beca smiles. "It uses
reduced bluemilk instead of cream, and he found a way to reduce it himself
without ruining the taste, so it's much cheaper."

Cheaper. Jeira frowns in internal consternation, hating that this was the prime
consideration now.

"Well you thank him for us, that was generous. And ingenious."

Beca calls Naema to set the table, and turns towards back towards the stove.
Jeira opens a drawer and holds out cuttlery and plates to her daughter, before
continuing:

"Perhaps you could ask him for more tips, if he's inventing that he must have
done a lot of experimentation. We could share a few of our own as well."

At Beca's raised eyebrow, she corrects precipitously: "A few of your tips, I
mean. My cooking experiments wouldn't be much use."

"Oh, I don't know," says Beca, teasing. "If one wanted to gain a supply of coal,
I'm sure you could make yourself useful."

"Come on, I'm not that bad," she laughs. "I can cook breakfast."

Naema fake-coughs at that, and Jeira mock-glares but then subsists and chuckles
self-deprecatingly.

"All right, all right, so I'm terrible at all things cooking."

"You make good tea, mum," consoles Naema, before pausing a beat and adding:
"It's physically impossible to burn water, after all."

"Brat."

Beca looks hesitant, then asks:

"Do you think we could look through family archives? There ought to be times
when it was harder to live, even records of previous occupations."

Jeira understands their hesitation. Beca isn't Thabeskani, and they don't have
the cultural background, and they still consider themselves technically an
outsider, even after being together for ten years, and being married now, even.
Family histories aren't shared with outsiders. Naema would have a better claim
on the family histories than Beca.

That's bullshit, of course. Beca is family.

"You're family, Beca. You're my family. There's none more than us any longer.
You're more than family, you're _fardishùma_. Of course we can look through the
histories. They're yours as well."

"And mine!" pips up Naema, who missed the non-verbal exchange.

"And yours, bun. Always yours." She fusses the child's hair, who preens into her
hand, smiling contentedly.

Jeira looks back at Beca, who seems relieved.

"I'll bring the pads with the indexes out after dinner. This could go to very
old records, so it's possible they're not kept at the usual places."

_And I'll give you full access,_ she resolves. Beca deserves it, and who cares
what the elders would have said, if they were still around, or what the elders
of other families would say, if they learned. She means all of what she said
from the bottom of her heart: Beca is family, she's _fardishùma_, living family.
Traditions change, people adapt.

Right now, when their very survival as a whole is compromised and threatened,
right now is not the time to be divided and divisive. Thabeska will only endure
through its people and their stories, and the best way to keep these is to share
and trust and build strong bonds and use everything they have to subsist and
strive even under oppression.

It's not the first time Thabeska has come under the rule of another. They'll
find records of that, stories, histories, accounts, reports. They'll learn from
the past and look to the future. Regimes fall. Cultures have to remain.

She gets up, and does the washing up. She can't burn cuttlery either, although
she did manage to burn — and shatter — a plate, at some point. She's still not
quite sure how that happened.

She watches her family perusing their respective datapads. Concentration and
delight on Naema who is no doubt reading a novel, homework done and reading off
to a good start. Intense focus and a keen interest on her wife, flying through
the filing system of the family archives, marking off what they think might be
relevant.

They're both the most beautiful and wonderful beings she's had in her life, and
as she looks over them, she is filled with hope and courage. If there's anything
worth fighting for, it's their smiles and their love. She'll gladly do that.
