She looks left and right and cocks an ear and listens to the beating of her
heart, making a decision. The night is quiet all around her, apart from the
distant march of a patrol to the southeast. At least a block separates her from
them, and they can't run as fast as she can, but they have blasters, and the
streets are straight and narrow in this part of the city.

She steps lightly across the plaza, dark clothing helping yet not completely
disguising her form. So long as no one is looking, she is safe. So long as no
one looking through curtains is speaking, she will make it.

She does, at least to the other side, where she can once again ensconce herself
in the folds and gaps of buildings. Five dozen metres more, that seem to take
hours but really are only the work of a few minutes, and she's arrived.

A complex pattern of knocks on a wooden door, a question through the door in
hesitant Thabeskanì, and she is safe, welcomed by a tall man with perpetual
stubble and a darker complexion than most on Thabeska.

Jeira clasps Branden's arm and shudders in relief.

"You're slightly early," he says after a greeting. "We're still waiting on
Ardella and Ro'agi. I'm on door duty as you can see, but the others have made
tea and caf, get in the other room, we'll join you shortly."

"I'll make sure we keep some hot for you." Jeira thanks him and steps away.

Five faces look up when she enters, and all are happy to see her, even Adiel,
though her expression remains ashen.

"No news of Lokyi, then?" Jeira asks softly, sitting down, drawing a mug of
steaming hot tea towards her.

A mournful shake of a head answers her, but no words. Lokyi, beautiful Lokyi,
with their pale skin and light hair (a rarity on this world), had gone missing a
fiveday ago, and every day without news is further tacit proof of their
disappearance being permanent. Jeira hopes they've been simply taken and
imprisoned, but in a week she'll hope they've been killed instead, as horrible
as the thought is. The alternatives are all terrible.

Soon enough, the three others get in the room. Ardella and Ro'agi hold hands, a
detail that is quickly remarked and congratulations fuse. Branden sits down
last, and unrolls a sheaf of flimsi. Jeira passes mugs over, then they all
quiet down for their ritual of remembrance.

Branden starts reading names. The entire list is long, but they only list those
fallen or presumed dead in the past three months: remembrance was honoured, but
stoking old wounds helped little. Many of the names Jeira does not recognise,
apart from hearing them at previous rituals. She repeats them all the same. They
would be from operations she doesn't know, from cells she has no knowledge of,
from friends and colleagues, from members before her time.

When Branden reaches the end, he hesitates, but does not add anything. It is too
early, even though they all suspect. Hope for the impossible is not so easily
given up. _And good on us not to give up!_ she thinks fiercely.

Then starts the meeting in earnest.

"We have news of the eastern brigade. They think they have found a way
off-planet without going through the spaceport, but they have yet to establish
contact with any groups elsewhere that can provide safe passage out of the
Empire's reach."

That's Shamei, who is responsible for communication between cells. She manages
codes and hidden frequencies and dead-drops and has a very good mind to subtly,
quickly rearranging people's travel routes so they can meet without anyone else
being the wiser. Jeira prefers her to Abeth, who had the role when she started
with this group, but misses their gentle voice. Shamei is all sharp accents and
distinctive glotal stops that speak of their time on Ryloth, before the war.

Quino answers.

"We don't have that, but I think the shadows of Dar may be able to help."

He pauses, but when Shamei doesn't add anything, he speaks his own piece:

"The patrol schedules have not changed since last, but their numbers have
decreased by one each. Either they're preparing to move some offworld, or
they're going to add a new patrol from the missing bits. They haven't yet,
though."

Another voice fills the gap, continuing the thought.

"Movement on the spaceport is the same as ever, regular imp shipments, regular
troop movement, no new officers to report that I know of. If they're sending off
any, they'll have a wait a while: there's no transport available as far the
calculations say."

Adiel, watcher of the spaceport. She does other things, of course, but that is
her main focus. She used to be a technician, repairing and maintaining
space-faring ships back when travel wasn't so bolted down. Now she only watches
from afar, but she's got the ear and eye for it.

It's Jeira's turn to provide a missing piece.

"They've started building them, I think. That could also be the reason for
pulling troopers of their rotation, but I'll not speculate further."

She pauses briefly to acknowledge the looks of dismay, before continuing with
her information.

"I've finally managed to trace where our supplies are disappearing to, at the
junkyard: the local imp commander is, well, commandeering them, without giving
warning to crafters and cleaners. They're only just starting to find a rhythm so
they can adjust their production patterns: every sixteen days, give or take,
from what I've managed to get out of them."

The revelation is met with silence, until Adiel speaks up.

"Ah, we knew they were going to get to it sooner or later."

"Did we?" asks Brendan.

"Aye. It's much cheaper to build — or restore, which is what I bet they're doing
— locally than to requisition from wherever they hold their supply of ships. And
it's also a lot more reactive; they can start and stop production as they need
to. It's why Thabeska had its own shipyards before they were stopped from
dis…use…" she trails off, eyes wide.

"You're thinking they're using the Kunrider shipyards." Shamei reasons. "You're
thinking we have a target."

"And a mighty good one at that," enjoins Branden, looking excited. "We'll need
to scout the place and make sure that your guess is right before we do anything.
But if it is…"

"We can strike a direct blow onto the Empire." Ardella completes.

Quino and Ro'agi exchange a glance, uncomfortable. Jeira knows, she's pretty
sure, what they are worried about: direct action means a lot more focus on their
activities. It will almost certainly mean a crackdown, and that will have
repercussions, not only on themselves (they knew the risks), but on innocents.
Potentially on family.

Would it be worth it? That was a question each of them had to ask themselves.

She brings another concern to the table:

"We shouldn't strike just at random. If we can stake this out, if we can be
ready to enact a plan that would cripple their production at any time, we have
to schedule it carefully. Have the maximum impact. We'll only get to do it
once."

Heads are nodding around the table. Jeira isn't sure if it is in agreement of
the need to prepare and wait, or in agreement of dealing maximum damage. She
hopes it is mostly the former, although she understands (and agrees with) the
desire to make the Imperials suffer, for once.

With a little more discussion, an action plan is drawn up, and responsibilities
are given. The rest of the meeting doesn't match the excitement they all felt, but it
was important nonetheless: organising food reserves and distribution, the latest
schooling bundle as well as new subscribers, a reminder about operational
security and finally the codes and times for the next meeting.

They wind down and say goodbye, each slipping out into the night at spaced,
randomised intervals. Jeira hugs Ardella, offering more congratulations on the
relationship, and obtaining a promise for a chat when they'll next see each
other during daylight.

The walk back is less eventful. It is much later after curfew than when their
meeting started, and during night the patrols thin. Troopers need to sleep just
as much as citizens do, and there is no one about save them, who were not
supposed to be.

She never relaxes, though, not while she is out. Always alert, always listening,
always nervous. It exhausts her. When she finally arrives home, she steps inside
and silently falters onto the couch, trusting it to be in the same place despite
the utter darkness, tipping aside on… Beca, who apparently waited for her
tonight.

"What are you doing up, love?" she whispers, in case they are asleep.

They're not.

"Worried for you tonight." They cuddle up, hissing softly at Jeira's cold hands.
"You should wear gloves, else you'll catch something."

"So long as I'm not caught by something," murmurs Jeira under her breath. Not
quietly enough for her wife to miss it, if the squeeze she gets in response is
any indication.

She is content to remain that way for a while, basking in the love and happy to
be home. Sometimes she wants to stay home forever, and not risk herself and her
love once a twoweek. Today is not one of these days; she is still buzzing — even
as tired as she is! — with the prospect of action. 

Beca notices, and asks. She hesitates to say anything, but is reminded of the
promise they made each other when Jeira had started getting involved: share
everything, trust in the other, keep themselves safe, and don't discuss it
around Naema. Share _everything_, even what could worry Beca because it will
most certainly involve more risk.

Beca wouldn't have let her keep silent, anyway.

"We've maybe found an opportunity," she begins, and explains the how, the why,
the what. Beca is silent afterwards, and she has a minor moment of panic.

"If you don't want—" she starts, but is interrupted by a finger on her lips.

"It's not that. I'm thinking back to something I've heard in the past few days,
that didn't make sense then but suddenly does. I can't recall what, though."

Jeira nips playfully at Beca's finger, which is still pressed against her lips.

"Ah, I'll probably remember it later."

They move their finger along Jeira cheek, caressing it. Jeira leans into the
touch. They're both very tired, and she knows it, yet she needs more than a
cuddle right now. She brings her hand up, brushing against Beca's back and
starts to play with their hair, then pulls them forward for a kiss.

Beca presses their hips forward and Naema feels herself straining against her
dress. A hand slides under her shirt, and she collapses backward, bringing Beca
with her in the movement, breathing their scent in and holding them close.

"Uh uh, lemme off a bit," she hears. "Gotta have more space than that to get
that pesky shirt off of you."

She gives a little laugh and lets Beca go just enough that they can start
undoing her buttons, and she slips a hand further down, causing Beca to shiver
in eagerness. Naema raises her head again, her eyes teasing as she reaches for
a kiss.

Yes. It is very good to be home.
