Patra Fardi looked up from his paperwork. Over the last four years, more and
more of the family business had needed to either be replaced by legal ventures
or hidden under approved smuggling. The Empire had discarded a lot of Republic
regulation, but one could not mistake the relaxing of laws for authorisation to
profit: instead the rules were established by the Imperial command on-planet
and within each jurisdiction, in a complex bureaucracy reft with egos and power
struggles, where what was allowed and what was tolerated could shift briskly
depending on who had most control or often, who was visiting the locality.

Record-keeping was now of the utmost importance. It had to be done
meticulously, with every movement and every transfer, every sale, every hire,
registered and justified and filed in triplicate in several secure places.
Raids and controls by Imperials, often accompanied by Stormtroopers, were
frequent, even with the benediction of the local figurehead. Anything out of
place, and he would have to spend days helping skeptical officers to go through
months or years of business backlogs.

It was exhausting. It made running the Family smuggling operations harder than
ever, and harder every year, almost getting impossible. But Patra would not
give up. He had promised his Da, all these years ago, not to give up the family
business, and not to give up the Family's place on Thabeska. The latter, Patra
thought he had already failed. The Empire was too cruel, too strict, too
unforgiving. Bribes didn't work anymore, and helping Thabeskan civilians and
industries was seen as interfering with local Imperial command. The Thabeskan
people suffered, and all he could do while subjected to the regime's oversight
was keep away other criminal enterprises.

There was no sentient trafficking on Thabeska. Only Empire-stamped spice passed
through, and it passed through them, and none of it stopped here. Gambling he
could not control, but that was one area the Empire did not tolerate either.
Prostitution had long been legal, a holdover from their Nabooan ancient
history, and its illegal aspects were, if present, at least thankfully very
rare. Extortion was a problem, but not technically of the criminal variety —
when the government itself extorts its citizens, it does not appreciate
competition.

What remained was the slicing industry, which nobody was foolish enough to try
to stop, and violent organised crime, what one of his children called the seven
asses: assassination, assault, assailing, assizing, asset recovery, and
Assegai, the local arms trade.

Children were the future, and the present. They'd had to keep nimble as a
family, they'd had to break tradition, in order to survive effectively. Patra
could admit that he'd initially been wrong on this. It was only after a lot of
arguing with his wife, with his cousins, with his older daughters and nieces,
and some soul-searching, that he'd conceded and accepted to, on a trial basis,
let young Fardi _not_ train to fly, and instead train in other parts of the
business first and foremost. And it had saved them.

While the oldest of the still young, like Chenna or Sitra, were already too
advanced in flying to give up or change, they had subtly transitioned to also
training as ship command, or taken up side-skills to shore up crews at short
notice when needed, as the Imperial presence had stiffled recruiting.

The younger ones, however, had been the most interesting. His daughter Malaka
along with a tight-knit group of her cousins, had taken an interest in strategy
and planning, and exceeded expectations by anything he'd imagined: after two
years, joined by initially intrigued, and then highly engaged, older members of
the Family, spouses, and even trusted outsiders, they had formed a Working Group
that had relieved a heavy part of his duties as Clan Head. He kept final say and
was very careful not to get sidelined; as tempting as it was to offload all
work, he was ultimately Clan head, and that came with responsibilities.

Yes, this change, and the other changes it engendered, despite his first
opposition, despite breaking with tradition, had been the best thing to happen
to the Fardi under the Empire, and possibly after it.

(For he had no doubt the Empire would end. It might not be within the rest of
his lifetime, but it would happen. It was too violent, too cruel, too injust.
Unsustainably so. Whether by the current growing rebellion he'd had a glimpse
in with a Togruta employee several years ago, or by another movement, or by
imploding on itself, it would end. He was certain of it.)

He made a mental note to find a gift in thanks for his wife.

The biggest surprise had been little Hedala. As the youngest, she'd come into
her apprenticing period onto an already well-developed system. Initially
undecided, she had tried just about everything, every aspect she could be
involved in, before falling back to flying. And that's where she found an
interest and talent: the complex mathematics of hyperspace travel.

He'd learned more about that field than he'd ever had an appreciation for as the
barely pubescent girl talked his (and everyone else's) ears off whenever she
found a victim, and he was often available. He'd learned to do work while
listening, and had developed a nostalgia for a gone time when cuddles were the
only danger to being near an idle Hedala.

(It turned out that while most pilots left hyperspace travel calculus to
navigation computers, doing it manually meant one could add sapient knowledge
and intuition — something that the kid seemed to have in spades — and pull
inventive maneuvers or daring techniques or, more often, get some sweet fuel
economy going by using gravity wells instead of avoiding them, like the
conservative navicomps usually do. Of course it's horrifically more complicated
and what little of the math Patra understands makes his brain go fuzzy.)

Chenna, upon finding her little sister firmly ensconsced in a front of a holo on
the subject after returning from a long courier to the Illisurevimurasi sector,
had made her promise never, under any circumstance, to ever attempt the Kessel
run. After subsequently hearing about it, he agreed.

For now, to everyone's relief, Hedala stayed on Thabeska, calculating routes
theoretically and testing them using a simulator. He knew that wouldn't last,
but he was determined to let it go for as long as possible.

Children were the future, and they were the present. Most importantly, they were
too precious and adorable to let go quite so soon.
