The thing that surprised most Patra when he finally returned among the living
and started figuring out what he'd done during his weeks on little sleep is that
he apparently hired someone and doesn't actually remember doing so _at all._

She's a young Togruta with orange skin and blue-white lekku, and she's a decent
enough mechanic, but really Patra thinks she's a pilot, trying to hide. Her
knowledge is too specific in the right ways and too general in the wrong ones.
What throws Patra off, now that he's had time to really see her, is how young
she is.

Despite living most of his life on Thabeska, and despite being a fairly average
human (aside from the whole 'head of the ruling clan of a planet' thing), he has
traveled extensively around the Galaxy since he was a teenager and well into his
adulthood, until he had to stay onworld most of the time when he took up the
headship. He knows and has known many Togruta, Twi'lek, and other species with
lekku or similar appendages.

This Togruta is _very_ young.

That she's likely a pilot and has a lot of mechanic knowledge and knows more
languages than she advertises and managed to position herself the right way to
the right people to be hired in a time of crisis paints an interesting picture
that only few profiles match. One of these is now unspeakable.

She gave her name as Ashla, but he has little doubt it is fake. He will not pry,
though. If she is, or was, what Patra believes, there are now strong reasons for
him not to reveal her, and pushing her at the wrong time would likely result in
unwanted attention both for her and them.

So he doesn't pry. He also submits his conjectures to the newly-formed Clan
Council, who agree that the information should not leave the room, and that they
should obscure what clues there are to protect her identity and nature. The
Council quickly surfaces another issue:

"If she's Jedi," begins Chenna slowly, "she likely can detect truth-saying. We
should be careful what we say around her, and how we explain changes to her
situation if we're doing so for reasons we cannot disclose."

"In that case, we should relay all instructions through at least one non-Council
person." advises Adela, a second or third cousin off his uncle's branch of the
family. "I've been reading through what records we have that deal with Jedi and
I believe one level of indirection should be sufficient for a young Jedi,
especially one who might not have finished her training."

"Why were you looking for interactions with Jedi, Adela?" asks Patra, curious.
Unless they'd already figured Ashla out before he came to them…

"I was wondering why there were no Jedi in the Clan. We have a long recorded
history and statistically there should have been several Jedi in our numbers."

Patra starts to speak; he knows this. But Chenna speaks at the same time and he
gestures for her to carry on. As the Clan Heir, she needs all the practice she
can get. Learning and sharing (at the right time and with the right audience)
Clan Head histories is part of it.

"In 2503 Mer Fran Kea made a pact between Thabeska and the Jedi Order after an…
incident?" she looks up to Patra, but he remains impassive, wanting her to
decide what to say on her own. "There was a child of the Clan who was rendered
an orphan a few years prior. The child manifested latent abilities upon
witnessing an intervention by the Jedi. The Order tried to entice them to join
using some very offhanded tactics that were essentially coercion."

There's a gasp and a number of Council members look grave. Every citizen of
Thabeska is precious, and even more so members of the Clan, but children are the
future. To attempt to steal a child of the Clan is not only shocking, it is
grounds for a feud. That Jedi, the Galaxy's erstwhile peacekeepers, did this…

Patra picks up the story to provide the relevant details when Chenna indicates
with an air of desperation that she doesn't know enough to continue.

"The child never left Thabeska and the situation was resolved. The Jedi involved
claimed they were unaware of the _cultural_ significance of their act. Mer Fran
Kea agreed to let them off, as it were, if the Jedi Order never recruited on
Thabeska or citizens of Thabeska again. Not just Clan. No Thabeskanì at all."

There are conflicted looks around the table. Sassa, Head of the Laafarti, one of
the most recently established sub-Clans, speaks up for the first time in this
meeting and expresses what a lot of them, Patra included, are feeling:

"I can definitely understand why that decision was made, although with the
hindsight of time it seems somewhat harsh. It should certainly have been
revisited later on; more than a hundred centuries have passed. But the Jedi
Order is no more, or at least has gone underground." He pauses. "We have no data
and larger issues. Let us focus on what to do with _this_ Jedi youngling."

Patra takes over to summarise:

"Adela should continue exploring the archives for information on Jedi powers, to
better understand what this Ashla can do."

She nods and makes some notes.

"In the meantime, any interaction should be done carefully if direct and
through intermediaries whenever possible. We'll decide further guidance on this
topic when we next reconvene."

He looks over each member, making sure they agree and have nothing more to add
before moving on.

"Next order of business, the allocation of training between those who were taken
off piloting. As you recall…"

-----

The Council session takes the rest of the daylight, and Patra feels a pang when
he comes out and sees he has missed the sunset. The sky is still a purplish red,
and he can see the two bright stars of Rish and Uki rising from the opposite
horizon. Ever since he has resumed living at a normal rhythm, he makes a point
to stand outside at least twice a day.

He makes his way further out into the inner courtyard, onto the whitegrass where
he can sit and still be seen by his bodyguards — another decision he didn't
remember making, but that he kept — it was just good sense, even if it was
occasionally bothersome.

Sometimes he'll have flimsywork, or stacks datapads to be read, or an assistant
demanding his attention. Usually, though, he'll been there with Dir, or one of
his children, or Chenna, or little Hedala. Today he's alone.

He tries to remember the name of stars in the local language of the systems
orbiting them, rather than their names in Basic. In his youth, he had a passing
interest in galactic linguistics, and one thing that remained is the trend in
forgetfulness of the names of stars. Across almost all populations and cultures
studied, after just decades of exposure to Basic, the local names of stars and
constellations are forgotten and replaced by their Basic names. However, the
name of the systems' own stars remain strong even after centuries, until it's
Basic itself that changes to accomodate.

The effect was a frequently given example of the Principle of Concurrent
Relative Evolution, one of the guiding principles of galactic population
studies. To Patra, however, it was a reminder of the power and importance of
language and culture, and the virtue of stubborness.

He thinks back to Mer Fran Kea's decision to ban Jedi from taking from Thabeska.
While others in the room likely considered the decision a loss in terms of
strategy, as a lack of Thabeskanì Jedi also meant a lack of information into how
they worked and what they could do, Patra's view was more personal.

He hasn't seen it happen recently, and he's almost certain that no one else in
family suspects either, but the youngest of the Fardi younglings, Hedala, was
likely Force sensitive. He'd noticed some playground injuries healing faster
than they should have, a preternatural instinct when it came to ball games, as
if the child could see movement before it actualised, and a propensity for
appearing whenever food was being laid out. Sure, that last one might well be a
keen sense of smell and a fondness for home cooking, but it was at times
uncanny.

He hasn't shared his thoughts with the Council, nor even with Chenna. He's not
sure why, but he has a feeling it's important. And despite the lack of
information, there's one thing he's sure of when it comes to the Force: whether
you are sensitive or not, if It tells you something, you better follow Its
advice.

The Force, as it is named in Basic, has a faint but special presence on
Thabeska. It is never really explicited in all but the more obscure of the
stories, and the Fardi clan leaders have all, over the past millenium,
contributed to removing from public circulation those stories that reference it.

In Thabeskanìr, She is named Hituma, the All-Watcher. She watches over all that
live in its domain, whether that is living beings or Larma, spirits and shades.

The Ancient Thabeskan used to pray to Hituma for good fortune and safe
travels, hinting at a more appreciated Force presence on Thabeska, but the
practice died out several millenia ago.

If they could provide a safe enough haven for a fugitive servant of Hituma, that
might not only bring Her favour onto their efforts, but perhaps Ashla could
confirm whether Hedala was sensitive to the Force as well. What Patra would do
with the information, he didn't know yet, but in this, more knowledge was almost
always a good thing.

He stands up and walk back inside, intent on finding at least some dinner before
the evening reports monopolise his time.

He makes a note on his personal datapad to remind the Council next session about
their obligations to Force sensitives, regardless of past history with
child-stealing Jedi, and after a moment of thought rewrites it so the reference
to the Force is hidden, in case his pad falls into non-Council hands or someone
happens to look over his shoulder at an inopportune time.

There's little more to be done about that until Adela comes back, so he shelves the
concerns off his foremind and has a short meditation to clear his thoughts and
prepare for the horrors of flimsywork.

A few hours later he is interrupted by a knock on his office door and Devena
stepping in. His youngest, at seven, has grown bolder over the last months and
would show up whenever she knows she will not be minded, and a few times when
she doesn't but hopes not to be noticed. His bodyguards do not so much as twitch
anymore at her various modes of approach, although her
leaping-out-and-surprise-hugs had taken a while to adapt to.

"Mum wants you."

Patra hums and finishes writing before answering. Devena fidgets.

"Did she say why?"

Devena boggles at him.

"I suppose it doesn't matter," he muses, to his daughter's fervent nodding, and
he lets her lead him through the house.

Dir is waiting in their bedroom, because it's eleventh hour and it is of course
time to sleep. He's still not off the hook on taking care of himself.

"I was on my way when Devena found me," he tries.

"Liar!" the child singsongs as she waves goodnight and walks away.

A sheepish smile doesn't un-narrow his wife's eyes, but it was worth a shot.

"Get in here, you," she growls.

"Yes, ser." He mock-salutes... then hurries to bed at her glare.
