Patra had no doubt the Empire would end. At times that felt like wishful
thinking, but when he wasn't stressed and anxious (which was admittedly rare
these days), he had rock-solid faith in the Empire's eventual demise.

It might not happen within his lifetime, but it would happen. It was too
violent, too cruel, too unjust. Unsustainably so. Whether by the growing
rebellion he'd first had a glimpse in with Ashla a number of years ago (as well
various groups here on Thabeska he was vaguely aware of, even though all Fardi
kept their distance to avoid incriminating themselves; survival being the
highest priority still), or by another group that would take up the fight later
on, or even by imploding on itself, it would end. He was certain of it.

He wasn't alone. His belief stemmed not only from personal conviction, but also
from the extended research the Archival Team had performed on the various
authoritarian regimes the Fardi, and Thabeska, had endured. While the longest
period of dark oppression had been long enough to fundamentally change the
internal clan hierarchies several times over, it had eventually gone, drawn away
from the Outer Rim to fight its battles in the Core (and dying there).

The Council had recently confirmed news of the Empire's violent repression of
Ryloth. They had known they were relatively privileged and safe here on
Thabeska, but now Thabeska looks like some of the nicer resort satellites of
the Weststar pleasure chain in comparison. Sessions are noticeably more subdued.

Patra is bracing himself as he steps inside the Council rooms. He has no news of
his own, but they left last week with a lead for more news about insurgency
movements and those will be either hopeful or absolute despair. Possibly both.

As he takes a seat he can already see tense faces and his stomach freezes solid.

"Let's begin. Sassa, do you have news?" he asks in Thabeskan√¨r.

They switched to conducting meetings entirely in the language instead of Basic
to add a layer of protection against eavesdropping or spying. There is little
doubt protocol droids would be able to translate, but organic beings would have
more difficulty. The council rooms were regularly electromagnetically blasted
and sweeped, and every month were comprehensively stripped, trashed, and
rebuilt. Paranoia is _in_ these days.

"Not of _new_ insurgencies, but of someone we know of. Cham Syndulla of Free
Ryloth has contacted us, through intermediaries, but we have confirmed the link
is authentic and secure." She speaks in measured tones, making sure every word
is heard and understood.

Nobody looks surprised, so the news must have been shared prior to his arrival.
Patra quashes a flare of annoyance at the breach of protocol. Now is not the
time. But if they've all had a think about it, they can bloody well share with
the class.

"Comments?" he prompts.

Immediately the room explodes into chaos. Patra sighs and massages his temples.
He should have expected that. The battle lines are already drawn, each major
side seated opposite each other, but with apparent squabbling among peers.

He slams his hand down to silence the din, and repeats his question.

"One at a time, please." he adds.

"It could be a trap."
