Naema rememers having friends. They were called Fiora and Kolla and TK and TK.
She remembers TK and Fiora not being at school one morning, and never seeing TK
again after she was called away during cooking class. She remembers saying
goodbye to Kolla every time they had different classes so they wouldn't regret
it if they disappeared suddenly like their friends had. She remembers staying
home one day and then mama explaining the school had closed for good.

She never got to say goodbye to mama, nor to mum.

They were both there one evening, and she had said goodnight, and mum had
promised to continue the storytelling the next day. But goodnight is not
goodbye. They were gone when she'd woken up, late in the day.

She had never been able to find out why they'd never returned.

Naema often dreams of not having gone to sleep, of going with them as they went
out... or were taken, even though there were no signs of disturbance when she'd
woken up. Or even of stopping them, somehow.

She has nightmares imagining what happened. Tall dark officers like the ones
standing guarding the steps to the Imperial Officements, stepping in and taking
them away. Arrested in the street in the morning being faceless plates of
gleeming white. Caught in blaster crossfire. Executed where they stood.

In her waking dreams, she sees them turning around corners, reflected in shops'
glass. She long ago stopped paying attention, stopped yelling out their names,
stopped halting people in the street, only to be disappointed and pushed away.

In her darkest days, she convinces herself they left her behind and ran. _You
were a burden to them,_ a voice whispers, and she hates that it is her own.
_They are happy now. Without you._

When she wakes up from such episodes, hours, even days later, she cannot
remember all that she did during them. Once she set up a holorecorder in the
hopes of finding out, the next time. She almost didn't recognise herself in the
vacant expression, unbrushed hair, unkempt clothes. She doesn't holorecord any
more, but she does keep a log. She hopes they will get shorter.

She was taught by a neighbour — gone now — how to wash her hair and add charcoal
to keep it dull and deter men touching it. She cuts it herself, keeps it
unremarkable but short enough to not get in her way. She wears dark so the
colour doesn't bleed noticeably into the cloth.

That it makes it easier to get around in the shadows of buildings without being
seen is a nice bonus she only discovers later.

One night, two months after waking up alone, she hears a knock at the door in
the evening, well after curfew. She kills all the lights and stays silent, and
doesn't dare moving for a long time. She tries to see under the door, or through
the windows on the far side of the street wall. She looks around and finds a
weapon: a pan from the kitchen.

When she opens the door there is no-one there. There is no one in the street.
She makes sure to leave her feet inside her home as she looks around, heeding
the rumour that someone was taken for putting just a single foot out on the
dirt, and even that feels like a terrible risk. When she looks down she finds a
package, wrapped in cloth and bound in white thread.

She remembers the secret schoolwork her parents were getting from her old
schoolteachers, and she thinks perhaps that is how it was passed around, so she
takes it inside. There's not many other options: if she leaves it outside her
door a patrol will find it. Pleading ignorance does not work with troopers.

She opens it with trembling fingers, and finds not schoolwork, but food and
credit chips and candles and other necessities. It is just enough to survive,
but she has already started looking for ways to earn more credits. Without
knowing who gives her supplies or why, she is not going to rely on them. She'll
use them, gladly, though. But to survive long term, something she has never had
to think about before, she needs something of her own.

When the fourth package comes to her door, nearly 8 months after her parents'
disappearance, she gives a portion of her meal to a workmate at break. Teru
stares at the food, then stares at Naema.

"Don't do that again," she advises harshly. Naema is hurt and turns away, but
Teru explains.

Naema still thinks it is heartless not to give in fear of people taking
advantage, and does it again once. She learns. She misses curfew to lose her
tail, who saw her give to Teru and approached her as she left work to hound
her. She huddles in a corner and trembles silently as night falls, afraid to
move, afraid to stay there, afraid of being found, by troopers or snitch or her
pursuer.

She does not give what she has anymore. She remembers her mum's stories, but the
stories she was told did not say anything about surviving tyrants and poverty
and waking up alone and not having anyone to talk to.

It is a nightmare that makes her dream. One of the terrible ones, where she was
abandoned. She wakes up shivering and sweaty and angry and swears she will get
away and find her parents and ask them why. When she wakes up from the darkness,
she doesn't believe her parents left her anymore, but she keeps the dream of
getting away, of escape, of freedom.

It gnaws at her, for all that it seems impossible. It does not leave her alone.

She remembers the first Empire Day she and her parents attended. The crowds. The
children, rambuctious, not yet afraid like the adults were. She remembers how,
in the middle of the first speech by the local Imperial Under-Secretary to the
Sector's Moff, there was a commotion and blasterfire at the spaceport, and then
the whine — too early, too loud — of a hyperdrive powering up. They all learned
that sound in preschool, watching holos and playing pilot with toys.

Escaping is possible. Very dangerous, sure. But so is life here. Escaping is
possible, she thinks in a loop whenever she is idle, whenever she works
mindlessly. She'll find a way.
