“See you tomorrow,” she calls out before walking out. She stops on the porch,
still within cover of three walls, fits her mask, adjusts her
hood, and steps into the dusty fog.
 
The sun is still out, but with its light and heat filtered by the dirt
suspended in the air, it's nippy. She tucks a loose fold into her belt,
represses a shiver that wouldn't help, and starts the long walk home. Another
day brushing the grime out of recycled components, another day avoiding her
supervisor at pause times, another walking into the dust instead of waiting with
the others for a barely climatised transport into the residential quarters.

If it had been a doubting day, if she'd convinced herself that she would always
be stuck here, in this job, on this dirt ball, she'd have taken the small
comfort and talked with Atali and Juko of the weather, the work, the
co-workers, perhaps even giggled shyly when topics veered to one's or the
other's sex life. She'd have gotten home early, and fixed food on autopilot,
and gone to sleep hoping for a calm night. 

But today she believes in her dream, so she walks.

After a year of dreaming on her own, of not knowing what to do, she had started
logging everything she could, documenting comings and goings around routes she
chose to walk rather than what would have been the shortest way, so she could
spend some time in Astro Avenue, the street that the spaceport gave out onto, or
Imperial Lane, where the Officements and barracks were. She still didn't know
what to do, what she was looking for. She didn't even know if there was
something to be found. But she hoped.

She'd been taught how to look and walk in different ways to deflect attention or
redirect it by a matron who had caught her walking the same path for the fifth
time in a row. She had been too naive. She learned.

She found that many people dreamed of escaping, and many didn't but still knew
how to play the game and cheat at it and not get caught. She bartered the
knowledge of what to say to the droid in charge of water supply to get two
portions daily rather than one against clean cloth her parents would never wear
again. Then she bribed a bouncer with that knowledge into letting her in the
tavern part of the cantina despite not being nearly old enough.

(There were other ways should could have gotten in, but she felt hollow just
thinking about them.)

Convincing the staff to let her in the second time — and beyond — had been a
trick and a half, but she'd gotten there. The cantina was fine, for food and
conversation, but it was in the tavern that all the interesting things happened.
Access was indispensable to anyone needing to trade in information.

It was also packed with interesting _beings_. She'd met and interacted with more
species in there than she'd learned about back when she was still at school.
She'd also found that an air of wonder and fascinated questions about home
planets and physiology and career could, in the right circumstances (and with a
bit of tact — she had definitely put her foot in her mouth more than once), be
very conducive to conversation.

Everyone liked talking about themselves, especially in such an innocent manner.
It was just a matter of picking up the hints when they presented themselves.

But what Naema liked most about the tavern is that it gave way onto a gaming
lounge. She had thought the room filled with gambling machines, and it was, so
for the longest time she hadn't even entered; gaining money was hard enough
without spending it all for a dopamine rush.

But once she'd stumbled into it by accident, and found an old flight simulator.
It was free to use, too: either because nobody had fitted it for taking credits,
or because nobody was using it in the first place. She'd logged hours and hours
on it, and mentioned it casually to a patron in the tavern one afternoon.

The Zabrak had sat up, looking interested, and asked about the model and other
information. She only knew the make, carved into its side: HRZ-41, but had
invited him to look it over with her.

"I don't do humans, girl." he'd said.

After fighting her blush, she'd dragged him out to the gaming lounge. Well,
she'd tried to drag him there, only to find the tall and muscled being was an
immovable object who looked amused enough at her huffing he'd followed her.

The Zabrak had absently given a name: Freddie Manal, as he proceeded to fawn
over the simulator like a youngling in a toy store. Turned out she'd found
herself a retired (read: stuck planet-side with the new regulations) pilot...
and from then on, a flight mentor and simulator rival.

It had taken her years to beat his high scores, by which time the victory was
bittersweet: Manal had stopped showing up at the cantina several months prior.
Whether he'd found a ticket away or had met a less savoury end, Naema doubted
she'd ever find out.

She hasn't flown a real ship in atmosphere or out of it yet, of course, but it
doesn't feel as impossible now. She'd told Manal her dream after one session,
sweaty and flushed and still shaky from a virtual collision in the nightmarish
traffic of Coruscant, as the simulator still called it, despite the official
name having been changed to Imperial Centre for years now. He had nodded and
encouraged her quietly; he was looking for the same, really.

She logs time on the machine every week now, to keep practiced, but she feels
like she's reached its end. It's purely a flight simulator, too, not a
starfighter training model. There's only so many times one can do complex
landings and maneuvers in asteroid fields before getting tired of the limited
fidelity afforded by the old and creaking inertial compensator, or the glitches
in the holoprojectors when reaching undefined edges between the recorded and
simulated background settings.

She gets out of the gaming lounge, steps around a drunken Felucian whose
tentacles reach instinctively towards the sudden presence, and very carefully
does not react at the unexpected stormtroopers at the bar. She must have spent
longer than she thought in the holosim, or they got here early. In any case, she
arcs her trajectory to smoothly get away from them towards... well, one table is
playing crokin, and that's as good a reason as any to veer off.

She melds into the small gathering of spectators, and watches the game for a few
minutes before shifting slightly so she can also observe the troopers through
the bodies. She relaxes: despite the uniform armour, she recognises them as the
regulars who "patrol" the tavern through their patronage.

Differentiating whities was another impossible-sounding task a few years ago.
But she had met a grisled pale-skinned bounty hunter — looking very out of place
among the darker skin tones of most other humans on the planet — who claimed to
hail from Bavva but had the distinctive sharp accents of a Core worlder when he
relaxed, if ever so marginally. (Naema didn't pry, though. Beings had secrets,
and that was that.) He had indicated scratches, height, how low straps hung,
their gait, the way they moved, how they talked. A panoply of small hints that,
together, let one distinguish troopers from one another.

"They do recognise themselves, after all." he had pointed out.

She'd hummed thoughtfully and added as she understood the insight:

"Ah, that's true. And they couldn't do that if they were all exactly the same."

The Bavvarian had laughed dryly at that, but only shaken his head when she'd
raised an eyebrow, looking as if he'd shared a private joke with himself.

Perhaps he had. Naema had smiled awkwardly, and after a moment, the man had
continued describing details that everyone ignored on the troopers, but that
were very helpful for the savvy observer.

The game of crokin finishes, and the players change. She takes advantage of the
movements to slip forward and out through to the cantina, lazily waving at Kiri, the
bartender, as she passes. The troopers don't notice her at all.

She glances at the chrono on the far side of the room as she steps out, mentally
calculating how long she has until curfew, taking into account how far her house
is. No, there's not enough time to hang around more, she decides.

She stops at a table, gets out her scarf and mask, looks outside to gauge the
amount of sand in the wind. She hopes the wind will abate before the morning.

When she gets back to her street, the sun is setting, leaving her with a
comfortable margin of minutes before curfew patrol is due to to pass through.
She unlocks her door with a bioscan, a security measure that is perhaps
overkill here, at the far edge of the city, but not so uncommon a few blocks
further towards the center that it would draw too much attention.

She steps in, closes the door behind her, and says hello to her parents' picture
in the hallway. The holo had been taken before Empire Day celebrations, in their
nicest garb, but without the backdrop of troopers nor Imperial decorations
hanging from official buildings yet.

She climbs up to the roof and looks at the ballet of shuttles coming and
leaving before the closing of the spaceport.

Increased shuttle traffic is relatively new, merely a few years. She knows,
through conversations and her own memories, revisited for clues as she grew up,
that when the Empire had arrived on Thabeska, they had initially kept the status
quo of trading, but then enforced strict travelling guidelines that had had the
effect to prevent all but the most prepared and tenacious (in the face of
hostile bureaucracy) of captains.

Had followed a period of several years without any non-Imperial starship
entering or leaving the system. Speculation on what triggered it was rife with
theories, some patently absurd, if entertaining, and it was a favourite topics
in certain groups.

Then the Fardi had managed to allow their ships in and out. And a few months
later, that courtesy had been extended to all ships that could provide
documentation and, according to the grapevine, a bribe. Said bribe was the
largest obstacle to resuming full traffic: at several hundred credits, it was
hard to justify for operators with tight margins, and impossible for small-time
travellers for whom the amount represented months or even years of savings.

Naema finishes marking up what she can see and what she can guess of the
starship movements, recording also the distinctive blue-shifted glint flash of
hyperspace entry. That's also a new thing. She speculates that while Imperial
ships are confident in their safety, civilian and commercial outfits are much
more skittish and engage their drives much sooner, before leaving the system.

Of course, there's no way for her to confirm that. She doesn't even own a
telescope, much less a sensor array, nor even a droid which could perceive more
wavelength than she can. She has to rely on all she has: her eyes.

'Droid' was on the list of maybe-get-if-possible, once. If Naema is being
honest with herself, it still is, it's just that it would be expensive and the
Imperial regulations make it risky, unless one is willing to get a useless
droid. Well, useless for her. A housework droid is well and good, a protocol
droid could be useful... perhaps. But they wouldn't help her get away.

So it's not on the list for right now, anymore. Later, if, no, **when** she gets
a ship? Well, an astromech will be a boon. Perhaps an old R-series, unless she
gets really lucky and lands a more recent model. But these are more daydream
considerations than practical ones, at this point.

Today was a normal day in this
regard, which in her datapad's detailed notes, meant there was no regular
service arriving nor leaving. Thabeska wasn't visited by transport lines very
often. Most of the traffic was planet-local, and the little portion that was
interstellar was mostly Fardi cargo traffic, which ran on a random schedule, as
far as talking to drunk pilots and her own observations went.

When the second patrol clambered past her house, she sighed, looked at the
stars, hopeful and wishful both, and went to sleep.

She woke up with the dawn, shook the sleep off her eyes and breakfast off her
shelves, a quick trip to the fresher, a change of clothes. The same as the day
before, the same every day, no seventh day fancy-dress for her, not since she
was littler. She went to Empire Day each year, every year, as decreted, but wore
the same plain clothes for the Emperor. There was no one to frown, anymore.

She stepped onto the platform just as the transport arrived, same as ever
before, always on time, which meant always three minutes late. The public lines
used to run on time, but the delays were one of the ways the pilots rebelled.
Just enough to be defiant, not enough to be noticed, and predictable enough as
to not anger their passengers and endanger the bread they fed themselves with.

Naema joins Juko for her morning shift, lunches in the shade among other
coworkers, safer in a group. This week she believes she might one day escape.
She still doesn't know to where, or when, or what she'll do once she's away
(she's not hopeful enough to blindly believe whatever skills she picked up
working here or at the furnace previously would be marketable elsewhere), but
she believes.

Working is dull, life is dangerous, but hope makes it all bearable.
