Neither had wanted to fall asleep before the other, or at all. They had talked,
they had agreed, but both felt it was too early for trust, and they could still
leave the other in a shuttle and carry the same plan out one girl down. The
issue would be subduing the other, which would be much easier if that one was
asleep. But that was only a technical issue: the real problem with that thought
was how they felt about it.

Naema held an ingrained respect for the Fardi, passed from her parents and
culture, even though that warred with her distrust and disregard of authority.
She also trusted people from her own planet marginally more than anyone else.
More importantly, though, while she was aware that honour and fairness were
sometimes not beneficial when dealing with others, with people who would not
hold themselves to that, or who would exploit that… she wished to hold
_herself_ to a higher standard. She would keep her word.

That did not mean Hedala would, though.

Hedala, however, knew she was and looked too young. ‘Kid’ indeed. She’d never
be able to carry out her escape if she didn’t have the older girl’s help. Even
if she did manage, she had little hope of surviving or remaining free without
help. Two girls traveling alone, without anyone looking out for them, nor any
overt affiliations to clan or Family, was already going to be a juicy target
for traffickers and slavers. A single young girl? that was madness. She needed
Naema. Naema, however, didn’t need her.

In the end, fatigue won out. Hedala was younger and not used to sleepless
nights, and she knew this. With fear of betrayal gripping her heart, trying to
stay silent so she'd hear better, watching, waiting for any movement that could
indicate someone coming, she did not notice when she fell asleep. Ironically,
Naema had already been slumbering for hours when she did.

They both awoke when the navigation computer insistently beeped at them,
announcing imminent hyperspace exit and their arrival to Rinn.

