The girl was looking at the blurred stars. “You know,” she said, leaning
against a chair but not sitting in it, ”this is the first time I’ve been
off-planet alone.”

Naema didn’t answer, didn't look away from where the crew lay unconscious,
bound out of precaution rather than necessity. Some of them had fallen badly
where they stood, cutting themselves open or bruising their lekku (she
shuddered at the injury, thinking of how painful or dangerous it would be to
bruise a part of her brain). The worst had already been bandaged, crudely.

She kept a wary eye on her benefactor, whom she still didn’t know the name of.
The girl was watching her via the reflection of the room on the viewport, and
she didn’t seem to expect an answer so much as expecting something, anything to
progress the situation. It wasn’t the pose of someone who knew what they were
doing, but she didn’t appear frightened or uncertain, either, although it was
harder to judge from just her back and posture, and a few glimpses in the midst
of action.

Naema considered reneging on their vague tentative deal and subduing her, but
she had no idea of what she was capable of. Basic first care, some stealth,
handling a blaster, and being able to detect someone hiding while everyone else
was oblivious. That’s what she had observed herself. The girl looked very
young, perhaps even not yet of age, but she had obviously been regarded as a
superior by the crew and captain.

‘A Fardi?’ she mused. It fit, but the situation then became ludicrous: what was
a child of the ruling family doing turning against her own, and helping a
stowaway, now criminal, hijack a vessel? It had to be a trap. ‘But not a trap I
can get out of, in this case. And if it's not a trap, I have to figure out what
it is.’

“What's your name?”

Might as well start somewhere.

The girl turned around, and Naema could see what she hadn’t in the translucent
reflection on the viewport: a nervosity just beneath her skin. Not scared, she
thought, but uncertain. She hoped she looked less so than that, despite feeling
similar, or perhaps worse.

“Hedala.”

There was an Hedala in the Fardi, but that only added a weak point of evidence,
as Hedala was not a rare name. She personally knew another, an old woman who
worked at the remelt station. Plus, it could be a false name.

Nevertheless, she pressed on:

“Do you have a family name?”

Ah, now, that was hesitation. ‘She’s not sure to want to reveal it? Could be an
act.’ Even as she was thinking it, Naema discounted it, based on prior
observations. And, she mused, she could always wake up one the crew — the
prisoners, she reminded herself — and ask them to confirm, if she had the
opportunity.

The girl seemed to make a decision, and said softly: “Hedala Fardi.”

“What the fuck is a Fardi doing…” she gestured at everything and herself.

“Escaping. Like you, I think.”

--- snip ---

Naema got angry, suddenly. What did this child know about her? What did this
child of richness and Family-with-a-capital-F know about escaping? She hissed
questions to that effect, with a lot more profanity, disregarding her own
safety and, perhaps, hoping to scare the brat a bit.

The Fardi girl seemed taken aback at first, but then leaned forward and stared
and interrupted:

“Do you think you’re the only one to have _suffered_? That I haven’t the right
to long for freedom? That because my clothing is richer than yours I haven’t
lost—” she chocked and her face closed. She leaned back and sat and sneered.
“Fuck you.”

Naema felt some anger remaining, and shame, and grief. She breathed slowly,
forcing herself to calm down. It was true, for a moment, she’d felt indignation
at the idea of, of. Of someone who merely seemed more fortunate wanting to find
freedom. Of a kid of higher standing interfering in her plans. Breathe out.
Breathe in.

The enemy wasn’t some kid who also wanted freedom. It wasn’t the crew they’d
both incapacitated with an unflinching efficiency that still left her reeling.
It was the evil machinery of an entire system who wanted nothing but to
enslave, subdue, impovering, and destroy all that dared to be different, to
think different, to say different. It mattered little if that ‘all’ was rich or
poor or dressed in fourth-hand-me-downs or wore shining anklets. Breathe in.
Breathe out.

This child, this Hedala, had attacked people employed by her family. She’d
betrayed their trust, and helped hijack their shuttle from the inside. And she
had done so at the drop of a hat, without knowing the plan, or if there was a
plan, why? If Naema had to guess, for the very same reason she was here:
because it was the first opportunity they’d both seen and they’d done their
best to immediately grasp it with both hands. Breathe out. Breathe in.

Nevermind the courage she was discovering there, nevermind the personal
circumstances they had both endured and continued to, what mattered really at
this junction was the situation they found themselves in. They were alone.
Hurtling in hyperspace towards a planet she had never seen before, with only a
dozen hours to go. She needed to figure out what the Fardi wanted, and how (or
if) it would work with her own goals. “Go with,” she'd said. How far did that
entail, exactly? There were a lot of questions to be answered and things to be
done.

But first: they needed to work together.

“Alright.”

Hedela looked up. Naema could see unshed tears shining.

“Alright,” she repeated. “I’m sorry. I shouln’t have assumed.”

Hedala stared at her, clearly trying to figure out how sincere she was. Then
she nodded, sat up a bit straighter, and wiped her eyes on her sleeve.

“Okay, kid—”

“Please don’t call me kid,” the girl interrupted.

“I have to call you _something_. And you’re younger.” She paused. “I _think_
you're younger. You look younger.”

Hedala’s expression softened, slightly. “I think I am too. But, please don’t
call me kid. It reminds me…” she trailed off.

Oh. “Right. So.”

“I have a name.”

Was she smirking? Nah, only the light.

--- snip ---

“Hedala.” she tried. That wasn’t so bad. It still felt weird. Ah well. “Hedala,
okay. So. We’ve got to figure out what to do with our… prisoners, and how to
actually get clear once we’re arrived. I'd planned, well, some things, but I
don't know how that will work now that there’s an extra. You said you want to
come with, and we’ve made a deal, as simple as it was, so for as long as we’re
both okay with it, you can come with.“ She hadn't really planned to say that,
but felt it was the right thing now that she had.” Um. We also need to figure
out how you’ll disappear. I’m nobody, but—”

“I’ll have to die,” Hedala said matter-of-fact.

“What?”

“I’ll have to die. We can’t let them think I’m still alive, they’d come after,
or expect a ransom or demands. Plus, it will make leaving everyone _else_ alive
a bit more convincing.”

Whoa, that was hardcore. She’d apparently thought about that, as morbid as it
sounded. Normal kids, normal people even, didn’t immediately jump to faking
their deaths as a means to disappear, did they?

She must have been staring, because Hedala said, defensively:

“Well, what did _you_ do to justify your disappearance?”

“I just left. I won’t turn up for work, but I didn’t, like.” She gestured.

Hedala raised an eyebrow.

“Yeah? And what do you think your friends or colleagues will think happened to
you? Those who don’t know of this?”

“Nobody knows of this. And— oh, yeah. I guess I'm dead too.”

That was sobering. And _that_ was a definite smirk.

They discussed of their immediate plans a bit more, before getting to it. They
left the larger question of what they would do afterwards to, well, after.

They prepared two escape pods. Naema’s plan counted for only one originally,
but Hedala pointed out that if pirates — what they had decided would have
forced the crew to abandon ship — had boarded through the cargo bay, arguably
the weakest point of the ship, then the crew would have fallen back to both
sides, not just all gone and put their metaphorical eggs in one basket.

Speaking of invasion and pirates, as they walked the corridors they fired
Hedala's blaster at walls, doors, anything non-critical. Even if they didn't
plan on getting caught and anybody else boarding, it would be better if it
looked the part. Naema almost shot the ship's ident before remembering they'd
need it intact later so any fake transmissions calling for help would appear
right.

They made an inventory of what was in the hold. It wasn't much; the trade trip
was for buying, not selling. Hedala surreptitiously hid and then stuffed the
crew's pockets with datapads containing sensitive details of her family's
business, but witheld from those very pockets all the credit chips she could
find. They'd need to eat, after all. Piling it all up on a table and counting
it, Hedala announced:

“We have just a bit over six thousand credits. Plus whatever we can make by
selling the cargo.”

Naema had never had that much money at once, and said so.

“Me neither, Naema. I mean, my family probably does, but not me personally. It
feels like a lot, but… I don't know whether it’s really all that much, for,
say, ship repairs or whatnot.” She made a mental note to check the prices of
everything on the HoloNet as soon as they could.

Naema looked pensieve. “I know what refueling costs, and we’ll be fine. We’re
keeping the ship, then?”

At some point during the past few hours, Naema had started thinking in earnest
of the both of them as a “we,” and not just as herself and an uninvited guest.
It wasn’t companionship, it wasn’t partnership, but they had made a deal, and
by its words they would be together for a while, at least. It made more sense to
pool together resources and knowledge and plans, rather than merely travel near
one another, duplicating the essentials to higher waste and risk. She did not
trust Hedala, but she trusted that the younger girl had figured the same thing.

“You were right, it’s our best bet. No ident, blaster damage, involved in
criminal matters… we would have to sell it on the black market and get kriff
all for it. Plus…" she hesitated. “It’s a reminder of home.”

Naema hummed, but said nothing, before going back to taking her stuff out of a
ventilation duct and into quarters she’d appropriated as her own.

Hedala watched after her for a moment, then turned back to the pile of credits
and stashed them into a box for safe-keeping. They'd need to open an account
somewhere and transfer everything as early as they could. She tried to think
back to overheard conversations and dinners when she was too young to be
considered a listen risk, racking her memories for the name of worlds that
would be more amenable to opening accounts without a name. One of _Nar
Shadda_’s stations, if they could find absolutely nothing else, and certainly
not on the surface, she knew that much.

She sat back and surveyed her work, then frowned inward, concentrating on what
she was about to do.

“The hard part, now.” she called out to Naema. “Make plenty of noise!”

The critical part of the plan was to record and then send distress messages
back to Thabeska — she'd initially wanted to broadcast them, but her partner in
crime had pointed out nobody answered distress signals besides scavengers in
this part of space. And the messages needed to both sound real and suggest
she’d been killed. So, they’d figured, the best way to do that was if _she_ was
the one to record the messages, and then was… interrupted by the attackers.

Despite putting on an impassive face, she wasn't unmoved at faking her own
death. She would try to hide a hint, a reference that only her family would
understand, to indicate that this was an act. But chances were good they'd
think she was really— gone. And after having argued against them to be able to
go. It would cause them much pain, so much that she almost called it off
several times.

She picked up a kitchen knife, took a deep gulp of air, winced in preparation,
and made a shallow cut across her left hand. It didn’t hurt as much as she had
tought it would. Blood pooled in her palm, and she smeared it all over her
face, wiping the rest on her sleeves and front, finishing up by messing up her
hair. The dress would be ruined, she mused absently. She could feel the chill
of the liquid evaporating on her face. She bit her lip, then widened her eyes
and tried to look panicked. Hels, she _was_ halfway panicked.

Behind the closed cockpit door, the sound of a blaster started up. Naema.

“Mayday, mayday, this is the _Zepirys_ calling from Rinn. We’ve been boarded by
pirates, the _Crimson_—”

She timed it to use the sound of a blast to garble the name she'd made up on the
spot; pirates weren’t exactly known and registered, but it wouldn’t do to
mention by accident a group that either _wasn’t_ a pirate group at all, or that
no traces of existed.

She continued, giving more invented details about their fictive boarders (an Inner
Rim accent and a “what looks like” Mandalorian armor, “with red markings”). She
also described a figure reminiscent of a doll she’d owned as a child, hoping her
parents or at least her siblings would figure it out. She also included a name
that translated, in Old Thabeskan, to “Safe”. That was all she dared hint; and
in any case she thought she was running out of time.

“I think they’re—”

A crash louder than the rest interrupted her, and she looked back at the door,
genuinely afraid, before catching herself and turning back to the holorecorder
and going on. The crashes and blasts came closer and closer, until they were
right at the door. She finished up.

“Father, I’m sorry, tell Chenna"

And then the door opened and she was blasted away by a shot — set to below
stun, fortunately — as the signal cut out.

“Whoa, fuck, sorry — are you all right?”

Naema helped her to her feet and repeated the question. Hedala blinked.

“Yeah, that wasn’t real.”

Naema frowned, and then gestured.

“No, I mean, the blood.”

“Oh. Theatrics, y’know.” She looked down at her dress and scowled.

Naema made a sound of understanding, then told her the blood wouldn’t stain if
it was washed off right away, especially with a solvent. Then, as Hedala was
looking unsure, she offered to do it.

“You’ve got a change of clothes, right?”

‘Several,’ thought Hedala, but she simply nodded.

She looked around uncertainly, then shrugged, turned around, and started taking
off her dress right there and then. She reached to undo a button, and jumped
slightly when Naema placed a hand on her back and started silently unbuttoning
the back closure. She felt a tingle go up her neck, and closed her eyes for a
moment. The pressure disappeared and she straightened, removing the sleeves.
Without turning around she folded the garment quickly and passed it over. She
smiled, remembered that would not be seen, and thanked Naema for the help and
the offer.

With a simple “You’re welcome,” the older girl turned around and left, towards a
fresher, and to give Hedala privacy. In the quiet that ensued, she sighed
softly, then shivered from the cold and left as well, to her quarters and the
veritable wardrobe she'd taken along with her.

The ship sailed on in the maelström of hyperspace.
