Space was cold, but spaceships were heated. This was different.

She'd known before setting course, through the standard information available in
the atlas, but knowing Rhen Var was a snowy world had mostly been an abstract
until they were in atmosphere. She stroked the fabric of her light coat and
thought: 'This is not going to be enough.'

Naema abandoned the controls after settling them in a comfortable orbit, with
hours before they'd have to shift onto a different path so they wouldn't get
picked up by the Imperial outpost, and went to tell Hedala the bad news. But of
course she already knew, having seen the same report and the same sight out the
viewport. She was rooting through piles of clothing and random cargo odds and
ends from leftover shipments, crates still on repulsors as she'd just pulled
them from the hold.

"Don't go into the hold," she warned. "Climate control was off and it's so cold
I swear we could freeze Hutt slime. I sealed it off for now, nothing there we'll
need until we're back somewhere inhabitable."

"Perhaps if we open the star-side viewport it will warm it up slowly," I mused.

"Hmm. Can't hurt to try. But before that, try to put on as many layers as you
can, yeah? I've put what I think could fit you in this pile." She gestured to a
mix of such bright colours and varied shapes Naema winced. "What?"

"Well, there goes our stealth."

"You wear _black_ and _grey_ most of the time. Not exactly spy material on an
_ice_ planet." Hedala said as she rolled her eyes.

"Oh. Right."

"Plus, it will do you good. Less drab."

Naema huffed, mock-offended, and turned around to try on the least garish
garment she could find, a light blue shirt that was too big and extended past
her knees. 'More of a dress than a shirt, I suppose.'

After a good half hour, they felt a lot more confident about stepping out onto
the surface, and looked absolutely ridiculous. Hedala has tucked her hair into
two soft caps, one on top of the other, but it kept sliding out in places.
Naema's shorter cut was an advantage, but she was more bothered by the bright
yellow cape ("Who do we know even wears a _cape_?!") that did bring some warmth
due to its tough weave, but kept getting caught in things, like doors and floor
hooks. She'd resolved to bundle it up and pin it just higher than her ankles.

"It looks terrible." had declared her co-pilot. "And I'm not your co-pilot. I'm
your business partner."

"Uh-uh. So, how are we on schedule, partner?"


