The offer of contract had come through Ta'lla, who said someone wanted to hire
them for something and that it seemed like a big deal, and did they want the
HoloNet address?

"Yes. Obviously." At Talla's lekku shrug, which she had learned at length was
the equivalent of a raised eyebrow, Naema had added: "I trust you."

"That attitude will get you killed," Ta'lla had immediately warned.

Naema had rolled her eyes, and clarified: "I trust you as far as I can throw
you."

"That's not what that means. Also," and he'd gestured.

Ta'lla was a Twi'lek, and they were generally more slender than humans, but he
was an exception. He towered over Naema, who wasn't short herself. His deep
orange skin was streaked with a criss-cross of slightly lighter marks, the only
hints remaining of scars he'd endured. He was viscerally impressive at first —
and continued — sight.

Naema had rolled her eyes _further_ and declared that she had a ship. "I can
throw you pretty far. Down."

Ta'lla had shiverred internally, chuckled, and handed over the address.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The being on the other side of the HoloNet address signed their messages with
"Sir Papano." They hadn't been able to figure out, from text, subtext, context,
and plain old slicing and sleuthing, anything more than that.

The contract seemed simple enough: retrieve a package from a planet, bring it to
another planet. The package's contents were legal but private (read: probably
illegal, most probably untaxed, and looking inside was strictly out of
question). It was a single standard crate, would weigh about 200 kilos, and
paperwork would be provided.

It was the details that looked fishy, or at least indicative that something else
than a simple retrieve-and-smuggle would be required. First, that neither the
origin nor destination would be revealed, even in vague terms, before
preliminary agreement. Second, that the mission duration was two months, and
exclusive: no other jobs could overlap. Third, that their expenses would be
covered _prior_ to departure. They could provide a shopping list, and it would
merely be omitted from the final payment.

Nobody did that. Payment upfront was a thing. Payment split was a thing. Payment
on completion was a thing. Expenses covered a priori and payment guaranteed a
posteriori? What the actual fuck.

So they answered they'd think about it, and went asking around. Someone
somewhere had to have heard of this Sir Papano. And if they hadn't, of the style
of payment and sheer crypticness of the initial job description. They would pick
up rubbish and rumours, but it would be better than nothing.

TK: some description and blurbs of dialogue of their asking around

TK: the precise offer, including planet names

TK: some discussion and back and forth and delay because of the destination

TK: something happens to make them decide

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TK: arrive in orbit, carefully evade the dominion of the outpost

TK: place themselved about the coordinates, scan, rescan

TK: there's nothing there

With no trace of buildings, no trace of civilisation, they'd have to trek in
the snow and ice to find trace of what they were supposed to fetch.

Space was cold, but spaceships were heated. This was different.

Naema abandoned the controls after settling them down in a slight depression,
and went to tell Hedala the bad news. But of course she already knew, having
seen the same report and the same sight out the viewport. She was rooting
through piles of clothing and random cargo odds and ends from leftover
shipments, crates still on repulsors as she'd just pulled them from the hold.

"Don't go into the hold," she warned. "Climate control was off and it's so cold
I swear we could freeze Hutt slime. I sealed it off for now, nothing there we'll
need until we're back somewhere habitable."

"Perhaps if we open the star-side viewport it will warm it up slowly," I mused.

"Hmm. Can't hurt to try. But before that, try to put on as many layers as you
can, yeah? I've put what I think could fit you in this pile." She gestured to a
mix of such bright colours and varied shapes Naema winced. "What?"

"Well, there goes our stealth."

"You wear _black_ and _grey_ most of the time. Not exactly spy material on an
_ice_ planet." Hedala said as she rolled her eyes.

"Oh. Right."

"Plus, it will do you good. Less drab."

Naema huffed, mock-offended, and turned around to try on the least garish
garment she could find, a light blue shirt that was too big and extended past
her knees. 'More of a dress than a shirt, I suppose.'

After a good half hour, they felt a lot more confident about stepping out onto
the surface, and looked absolutely ridiculous. Hedala has tucked her hair into
two soft caps, one on top of the other, but it kept sliding out in places.
Naema's shorter cut was an advantage, but she was more bothered by the bright
yellow cape ("Who do we know even wears a _cape_?!") that did bring some warmth
due to its tough weave, but kept getting caught in things, like doors and floor
hooks. She sat down and hacked at it with a knife to shorten it.

"It looks terrible." had declared her co-pilot. "And I'm not your co-pilot. I'm
your business partner."

"Uh-uh. So, how are we on schedule, partner?"

"Well, we're within the window, but I'm not seeing anything."

"Nothing on the sensors either, although that might be a false negative from
all the cold. I don't think they've been calibrated for that." Naema thought
there were a lot of other things which hadn't been calibrated right, but it was
hard to tell without a mechanic they could trust. 

"We might as well get out there. We're at the right place, at the right time.
Maybe it's a drop, rather than just a pick up. Maybe the coordinates are a bit
off." She looked doubtful, at that.

Hedala didn't _want_ to get out in the cold, but she didn't see any other
option, either. This contract was big, even if it was billed as a simple
retrieval (it was the destination that would be the tough part) and their
contact was apparently a trusted agent within the community. Talking with
others, she got the distinct impression this was more of a test rather than a
standard hire. They couldn't back down so easily.
