The sun was beating down on the duracrete pavement, and while Hedala had shortly
entertained thoughts of getting out to stretch her legs, with her hood up as
protection, the heat had quickly dissuaded her.

They couldn't leave yet. The locals kept a watch on Imperial movements in the
system, and right now their departure window was being blocked by a trooper
cadet regiment doing exercises in between moons and space rocks. Apparently,
there was an Academy on one of the dustballs in the system.

Naema was back in the cockpit, watching their maneuvres _via_ passive sensor
array, probably more to anticipate movements and formations if they encountered
Imperial navy karks than to learn from the display herself. From what Hedala has
seen, they really didn't have anything on her partner.

By the vague estimate she'd been given, they'd be on their way in an hour, a
successful delivery behind them, and a friendly contact — and potential source
of continued business — acquired. That Riley girl hadn’t given much more of a
name, but she and her sibling (whose name Hedala _still_ hadn’t caught on) were
fierce about defending their home.

She understood that, and even though she had never revealed she came from a very
similar situation on Thabeska, not that it was such a rare thing under this
Empire, Riley had picked up the subtext in some conversation and the two had
struck a tentative arrangement: Riley and her sister needed supplies to smuggle
to the local clients, ahem, dissidents… and _Zepirys_ needed funds in the form
of business, and could travel outside the system more easily.

Cargamalis was calm, so far.

The unofficial travelport was outside the city, sure, so they didn't see a lot
of the seedy company nor heard the typical shipping banter that was usual in
other locations, and Naema had pointed out that would insulate them from
whatever nastyness was sure to happen in an Imperial-invaded world. Hedala had
nodded at that; she wasn't naive. She'd seen what happened in all places the
Empire touched, especially those with a less than cooperative population.

And yet anything she'd seen so far on this planet seemed almost idyllic, if it
wasn't for the searing heat and the white-armoured bastards roaming the cities.

With a start, she realised it reminded her of _home_, of Thabeska.


