
[][In the mess hall, having gone to dinner with Kes and Shara and their pilot and squad friends.]

Several tables down, two people were speaking in hushed tones but increasingly
loud nonetheless. It made their conversation completely unintelligible but also
impossible to ignore. Hedala thought she heard other languages than Basic in
there, too, but it was hard to tell. Looking around, she was surprised nobody
seemed to notice, hunkered down over their meal or talking between themselves.

She looked questioningly back at the table.

"That's… Captain Andor, right?"

Sakas' head-tentacles (Hedala knew better than to stare, but couldn't help
herself most of the time, especially when they were doing something
interesting) waved in a brisk pattern, and her eyes were smiling, even as the
rest of her face betrayed nothing.

"The shorter one is Jyn Erso. They're both intelligence."

At that moment, the girl — Erso — stood up, hissed "Fine!" and stomped away.
Andor seemed to freeze for just a moment before scrambling to his feet and
running after her.

"They're _spies_?" Naema deadpanned, skeptical.

"The best we have," Kes nodded. "When they're on missions, anyway."

"Are they… together?" Hedala frowned.

"Uuuugh." Shara dropped her head against the table.

"It's been obvious to everyone _else_ that they should be together for _years_
now, but no," explained Kes, "they're still not. They're the subject of one of
the longest-standing betting pools around here."

"Ugh." repeated Shara.

"Shara was… optimistic." piped up the Kiffar at the far end of the table.
Hedala was sure they'd been introduced but couldn't remember their name.

"Optimistic?! I bet for _six months_! How was that optimistic?!"

Naema chuckled once, like she was trying to hold back laughter.

"Oh, you laugh now." Shara mock threatened.

"Sooo, have you tried doing anything about it?" asked Hedala.

"Against the rules of the pool!" everyone chorused.

"Although… _you're_ not in the pool, now. You could do something."

A dark-skinned human leaned across from a nearby table and interrupted: "If
you're going to do something, wait two weeks, yeah? That's closer to my claim,
that way."

"Kriff off, Taidu." retorted Sakas. "You'll get your turn at disappointment."

"Oh, just because yours is years in the future still." He scoffed. "You'll
never get it. They're not _that_ dense."

But he turned back to his table.

"I've no intention of doing anything or get anywhere in between those two."
Hedala replied. "Especially as I'm not" and she waved her hand vaguely. "I
don't work like that anyway." she said more quietly.

Shara nodded. "There's no problem with being ace or aro in the Rebellion,
sweetie. We're all pretty special in our own ways."

Hedala smiled shyly.

All eyes turned towards Naema, who was looking thoughtful. She blinked, then
raised her hands quickly.

"Oh no. No no no. I'm not interfering with betting."

"Awww."

But everyone backed down.

She started again, sly. "Although I might be interested in participa—" but
stopped when Hedala buried her elbow in her sides.

"Ow! Hed!"

"You will not squander our credits on fruitless betting."

The rest of the table looked vaguely insulted. "It's not fruitless," one of
them murmured.

"But Heeed."

Kes and Shara exchanged a look. Yeah, Erso and Andor weren't the only oblivious
ones on base, clearly.
