

Hedala sees a figure through the windows, and stands up, and runs out of the
door. Naema blinks and sits still a moment, before realising and going after
her. The figure, surprised, turns around and gives the barest wince and Naema
feels her features harden just before her companion’s shout:

“Thabeska is not free, Leia!”

“I know, I _know_, but it’s a beginning, we needed peace—"

"The Republic,” Hedala sneers, “is at peace. Our _home_ is not.”

She’ll regret speaking so harshly later, Naema knows, but can’t bring herself
to care about propriety right now. Right now, she’d like to be the one yelling.

Leia looks genuinely taken aback at the venomous tone, before tightening her
features in the mask of politics. She is no longer their General, Naema thinks,
and she feels tired, suddenly, then steps away even as Leia argues in favour of
the Republic.

“Come on,” she tells Hedala, interrupting them both, “we’ve got work to do.”

Hedala glares, before turning her back without a goodbye, and stomping back
through to the mess. Naema looks at Leia for a long moment, then finishes:

“We believe in the republic, Organa. We fought for it. Just— not yours.”

Later, after saying their goodbyes and exchanging personal radio details, on
the way to their ship, to fly out of there, they find Luke watching them from
just inside the door to the hangar. He straightens at their approach. Hedala
keeps walking straight through, would have shoved him aside if he hadn't
side-stepped her with his unnatural Jedi grace, but Naema slows and stops a
metre away, and half-glares, half-stares.

“You're going to ask us to stay?”

She can't help to tinge her words with defiance.

His eyes don't change, gazing with a sadness deep beyond his years, but that
wasn't unusual these days. He’s lost more than Naema thinks she would bear
losing, and keep going. So has Leia. That’s why she hadn’t expected today.

“No.”

She sighs, just a tad relieved. She would have gone even if he’d asked them not
to, but just the same: he was Luke. She was relieved.

“You're going to tell me she’s right, then?” she asks softly, and there’s no
mistaking who she means. She doesn’t believe Luke just happened to be there,
after today, after the scene they made, and she knows he knows that.

Luke doesn’t answer. He does bow his head fractionally, and says: “She knows
what you’re feeling. She feels it herself.”

“Then why?!” Naema cries.

He watches her, no, beyond her, into nowhere, for a while, pursing his lips
just a little.

“She can’t — we can’t — we all can’t — wage war forever.”

_I could,_ she almost says, but pauses and tries to think if that would really
be true. “It’s not winning,” she begins, but Luke stops her with a curl of lips
that is not a smile, but not a grimace either.

“No. But it’s not losing, either.”

She nods, yet keeps mum, not trusting herself to speak more.

He bows again, not-smiles again, and reaches into a pocket. He hands out a few
chips: “Ident, pay, and keys. Call if you need, come by for dinner sometime.”

He steps out of the way, offers a hand to shake.

“Good luck, Captain. May the Force be with you.”

She looks out to her ship, spots Hedala waiting.

_Home is wherever you are._

She turns back, not quite smiling, but determined.

“And with you always, Skywalker.”
