
=== 042 Naema: ===

[](TK: add self-practice of looking for exits, quick-memorising of faces -- new
and regular -- and positions, cover space, weapons... while entering rooms /
walking about.)

An obvious source of good technique was Fardi-affiliated people. They higher
they were, the more experienced… but also the harder to watch and learn from,
in consequence. And she wasn't about to approach any of them directly, even at
lower levels. The Galaxy was Imperial, at the moment, and in any case Thabeska
was in the Outer Rim. Trust was nuanced and tiered, and trust in strangers
wasn't very high up on the list.

Another obvious source were the stormtroopers. Despite having a perennial
reputation for being very bad shots, and generally bad at everything (she
suspected a lot of that was government propaganda designed to lure potential
antagonists in a false sense of security, but she also had never been very
close to a firefight involving stormtroopers — or any firefight for this
matter), troopers were trained. They'd all gone several years in the Academy,
and there they were presumably taught all kinds of things she'd have loved to
know in a standardised manner.

She'd briefly considered joining the Academy. But that was _not_ happening. So
instead she took to observing its graduates, which doubled as stealth and
patience and sight-taking practice all in one. There weren't that many troopers
on Thabeska, she knew from holos and the news, but it still felt like a lot.
You never really got used to it. Nobody did, as much as they pretended, if only
to themselves. Conversations dimmed, eyes were cast down, lekku were relaxed,
nerves were tensed.

It comforted her, to see that despite the Empire being a reality for a third of
her life now, it wasn't completely normalised.

As she pulled open the door, a Mon Calamari with his skin scarred from being
desicated, a consequence of living on a planet where water was at a premium,
according to his stories, leaned out and sniffed at the air, grimacing and
mumbling about storms. He noticed her and showed himself out, letting her have a
turn with a parting comment: “one day I'll beat your score, Naema, just you
wait.”

“One day.” She smirked as she closed the door, settled into the simulator, and
loaded the program for a takeoff from Takodana, wherever that may be. The lush
jungle was unlike anything she'd ever seen or was likely to see here, but
negotiating the foliage and giant fauna was a good warmup before switching to
hyperlane navigation on the Coruscanti traderoute, or the three dimensional
air-taxi traffic on busy Serenno.

After two hours in the box, she emerged and went to buy a drink at several times
the real price, in the agreed-upon way to compensate the owner and bartender for
the use of the facilities without eliciting undue suspicion.

Alexis noticed her coming out and shifted over, put his elbow on the bar so
close to her drink that she worried about him bumping it over for a moment, and
started talking at her. She smiled as gossip about everything from common
neighbourhood concerns to the colour of crops in the southern hemisphere's
farmlands to the score on the current games of... some sport she wasn't actually
sure the details of, as she'd stopped paying attention about five words into the
spiel.

The ritual was both about allowing the man a safe outlet for his innate desire
to talk the ear off someone with asinine details of the daily life of feral cats
around the city -- both real and metaphorical -- and a cover for anyone looking
in her direction. Alexis was as gay as they came, Naema was Not Interested, and
that effectively stopped anyone assuming otherwise having a try.

It was also a good way to share information, like the new route of the curfew
patrol. It was likely third or fourth hand information, her companion having
little use for it as he was a permantent resident of this very establishment, 
so not the most precise, but still good to know.

